The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Curlytops in the Woods, by Howard
R. Garis

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Curlytops in the Woods
       Or, Fun at the Lumber Camp

Author: Howard R. Garis

Illustrator: Julia Greene

Release Date: May 3, 2022 [eBook #67986]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CURLYTOPS IN THE
WOODS ***


[Illustration: “OH, JANET! WHY DID YOU HIDE IN THE TRUNK?” ASKED MRS.
MARTIN.

  “The Curlytops in the Woods.”      Page 101]




  THE CURLYTOPS
  IN THE WOODS

  OR

  _Fun at the Lumber Camp_

  BY
  HOWARD R. GARIS

  AUTHOR OF “THE CURLYTOPS AT CHERRY FARM,”
  “THE CURLYTOPS AND THEIR PLAYMATES,”
  “UNCLE WIGGILY STORIES,” ETC.

  _Illustrations by
  JULIA GREENE_

  NEW YORK
  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY




THE CURLYTOPS SERIES

By HOWARD R. GARIS

  12mo.      Cloth.      Illustrated.

  _THE CURLYTOPS AT CHERRY FARM_
    _Or, Vacation Days in the Country_

  _THE CURLYTOPS ON STAR ISLAND_
    _Or, Camping Out With Grandpa_

  _THE CURLYTOPS SNOWED IN_
    _Or, Grand Fun With Skates and Sleds_

  _THE CURLYTOPS AT UNCLE FRANK’S RANCH_
    _Or, Little Folks on Ponyback_

  _THE CURLYTOPS AT SILVER LAKE_
    _Or, On the Water With Uncle Ben_

  _THE CURLYTOPS AND THEIR PETS_
    _Or, Uncle Toby’s Strange Collection_

  _THE CURLYTOPS AND THEIR PLAYMATES_
    _Or, Jolly Times Through the Holidays_

  _THE CURLYTOPS IN THE WOODS_
    _Or, Fun at the Lumber Camp_


CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY, New York




  COPYRIGHT, 1923, BY
  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY

  THE CURLYTOPS IN THE WOODS

  Printed in U. S. A.




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                        PAGE

      I PLAYING HOUSE               1

     II THE MISSING DIAMOND        14

    III THE LOST CROW              26

     IV TROUBLE’S SQUIRREL         41

      V OFF TO MT. MAJOR           52

     VI THE HAY WAGON              62

    VII AT THE FARMHOUSE           72

   VIII FUN IN THE ATTIC           85

     IX DOWN THE HILL              97

      X IN THE WOODS              110

     XI TROUBLE IN THE STORE      124

    XII TED IS CAUGHT             137

   XIII ALONE IN THE WOODS        150

    XIV A STRANGE CRY             161

     XV THE LONELY CABIN          171

    XVI THE TRICK CROW            183

   XVII THE SAWDUST FIRE          196

  XVIII TROUBLE HAS A RIDE        210

    XIX THE CURLYTOPS ADRIFT      221

     XX THE CROW’S NEST           234




THE CURLYTOPS IN THE WOODS




CHAPTER I

PLAYING HOUSE


“Trouble! Trouble! Look out! You’re knocking over the piano!” Janet
Martin called this to her little brother William, who, because of the
mischief he so often got in, was nicknamed “Trouble.”

“Where’s piano I knock over?” asked Trouble, who was still small enough
not to be expected to talk quite properly. “I didn’t was knock over any
piano,” he added.

“There! You’ve knocked it over _now_!” cried Janet, with a wail of
despair, as a small box, which Trouble kicked with his chubby foot,
fell down the steps of the back porch. “You knocked over the piano.”

“Oh!” exclaimed Trouble soberly, as he watched his brother Ted bringing
other boxes to pile on the porch where the children were playing house
that pleasant summer afternoon. “Oh, my! I knock over piano,” went on
William, still very grave and serious. “Zat’s funny piano,” he added.
“It’s only a _box_!”

“Well, we’re pretending it’s a piano,” remarked Janet, as she picked
the box up from the ground where it had tumbled after Trouble
accidentally kicked it. “You have to pretend when you’re playing
house,” she added.

“What’s Trouble done now?” asked Ted, as he put one of his boxes on
the porch and the other down on the ground near the steps. “That’s the
garage for our automobile,” he said, pointing to the box on the ground.

“Oh, that’ll be nice!” exclaimed Janet. “I didn’t know we were going to
have an auto. This is a lovely playhouse!” she said, laughing.

Ted and Janet often played house in this way, setting up a sort of
one-floor apartment on the back porch, with different rooms marked off
by sticks laid on the floor of the porch. In each of these “rooms”
were put different pieces of furniture. Most of the furniture was just
boxes, or perhaps an old broken chair or two, or even some sticks and
boards. But to the Curlytops the playhouse was very real. Only Trouble
could not “pretend” as well as could his older brother and sister. Ted
liked to play house with Janet, even if he was a boy.

“What’s that other box for?” asked Janet of Ted, when she had made
Trouble sit down on a small, broken doll’s chair in what was the
“kitchen” of the playhouse.

“That’s going to be the cupboard,” answered Ted. “And we can----”

“Old Mother Hubbard went to her dog’s cupboard!” sang Trouble.

“It wasn’t her dog’s cupboard, it was her own,” corrected Janet.

“Yes it _was_ dog’s cupboard,” insisted Trouble. “’Cause she went there
to get him a bone, but it was bare. Does it mean the bone didn’t have
any clothes on?” asked Trouble of his brother.

“Of course not!” laughed Ted. “Bones don’t wear clothes. It means the
cupboard was bare--it didn’t have even a bone in it for the dog.”

“Well, it was _dog’s_ cupboard all right!” still insisted the little
boy. “You goin’ have Mother Hubbard’s cupboard here?” he asked.

“No, this is going to be our own cupboard,” answered Ted, as he set up
the other box he had carried out from the barn. “And we’ll have real
things to eat to put in our cupboard, too,” he added.

“No! Not _really_?” cried Janet, with shining eyes.

“Really and truly,” insisted Teddy. “Look, mother said I could take
these cookies,” and he pulled half a dozen or more from his pocket.

“Oh, we’ll have a lovely playhouse!” exclaimed Janet. “I’ll make
believe I’m the cook, and you must go to work, Ted, and come home and
I’ll have your supper ready and I’ll dress up as mother does when daddy
comes home to supper.”

“All right,” agreed Ted. “Do you know where I work, Jan?”

“No,” she answered.

“I’m conductor on an airship!” laughed Teddy. “I’ll climb up in a tree
and make believe that’s an airship.”

“This is more fun than we ever had before!” cried Janet. “Oh, Trouble,
you mustn’t go in there!” she added, as she saw her small brother
picking his way over the sticks that were laid down in squares to mark
off the different rooms.

“Not go here?” questioned Trouble, pausing with one foot in one room,
and the other in another apartment.

“No, you mustn’t go in there!” insisted Janet. “That’s the parlor and
your feet are all dirty. You can’t go in the parlor with dirty shoes!”

“All right,” agreed Trouble. “Could I have cookie from pantry?” he
asked, watching Ted set up the box and put in it some of the good
things from the real kitchen.

“Yes, you can have a cookie when I get Ted’s dinner,” agreed Janet.
“Now you go out and play in the yard, and when you hear the whistle
blow that will mean Daddy Ted is coming home, and you must come in and
eat with us.”

“Can I eat real--have some cookie?” asked Trouble.

“Yes, we’ll let you eat real,” laughed Janet. “But don’t knock over the
piano again,” she begged, as she again set up the box that Trouble had
sent toppling down the steps.

“I not knock over no more,” he promised.

“Here, you make believe you’re a miner digging for gold,” suggested
Ted, giving his small brother a shovel and pointing to a soft place in
the dirt of the yard. “And when I go ‘Toot! Toot!’ that means it’s the
twelve o’clock whistle and you stop work.”

“An’ then we eat!” cried Trouble.

“Yes, then we eat,” agreed Ted. “Now I’m going to be a conductor in my
airship,” he added, as he climbed into the branches of a tree near the
back porch. Trouble began digging with his shovel in the soft dirt, and
Janet arranged the different rooms of the playhouse to suit her own
ideas, placing a bunch of leaves on the “piano” as an ornament.

“Janet! Janet! Oh, Jan!” suddenly cried Trouble, after a few minutes of
digging.

“What’s the matter now?” asked his sister, as her small brother looked
up from his digging. “Did you hurt yourself?”

“No, but I is not goin’ to be miner an’ dig for gold,” he declared.

“What are you going to be then?” Ted wanted to know.

“I be fisherman diggin’ for worms,” decided Trouble. “’At’s most fun
’cause I got a worm right now.”

“All right, be a fisherman and dig for worms,” agreed Janet. “Don’t let
him spoil anything in the playhouse,” she called to Teddy up in the
tree. “I’m going to ask mother something.”

“All right,” replied Ted. “Are you going after more cookies?”

“No, I’m going to see if mother will let me take her little diamond
locket,” answered Janet. “I mean the one with the teeny little diamond
in. I want to wear it when I dress up and make believe I’m a lady
getting my husband’s supper.”

“Oh, all right,” laughed Ted. “But I don’t believe mother will let you
take her diamond locket.”

“I guess she will if I promise to be careful of it,” said Janet.

She went into the house, while Ted continued to play that he was a
conductor on an airship, taking up tickets from the make-believe
passengers. Trouble kept on digging worms, carefully putting them in a
tin can.

Janet found her mother out in the front yard, talking to Mrs. Jenk, a
neighbor, and both ladies were laughing.

“What are you laughing at?” asked Janet, before she asked to be allowed
to wear the diamond ornament.

“It’s Mr. Jenk’s tame crow,” answered Mrs. Martin. “He really is so
funny! He ought to be in a show. Look at him!”

She pointed to the open window of Mrs. Jenk’s house, where, on the
sill, was perched a black crow. This crow had been caught by Mr. Jenk
in the woods some years before. He had tamed the bird, which was lame
from having been injured in a trap, and now it could do quite a number
of tricks, besides saying a few words, or what sounded like words.
The lame, tame crow could also whistle, often fooling Skyrocket, the
Curlytops’ dog.

Just now the crow was marching up and down on the window sill, going
limpity-limp, for one leg was shorter than the other. Suddenly Mrs.
Jenk tapped on the fence with a stick, and, at the same time, she
snapped her fingers.

Instantly the lame, tame crow stood on his good leg, cocked his head
to one side and stuck his short, lame leg out to one side, standing in
this funny position as stiff and motionless as a stuffed bird. Then,
suddenly, he made several popping sounds like corks being pulled from
bottles.

“Oh, isn’t he funny!” laughed Janet. “He ought to be in a show!”

“Yes, Mr. Jenk had an offer from a theatrical man who wanted to put Jim
in a show,” said Mrs. Jenk. “This man said our crow was quite valuable,
but Mr. Jenk didn’t want to let him go. He says he is going to teach
Jim more tricks.”

“Oh, I hope he does!” cried Janet. The crow stood on two legs again,
and once more marched up and down the window sill. “Do you think I
could make him stand that funny way and pop?” asked Janet.

“Try it,” suggested Mrs. Jenk.

The little girl tapped on the fence and snapped her fingers.

Instantly Jim stiffened, cocked his head on one side, stuck out his
lame leg and stood on the other, stiff and motionless. Then he went:

“Pop! Pop! Pop!”

“Oh, I did it! I did it!” laughed Janet, as Mrs. Jenk went in the
house. “I’m going to do it again.”

But this time the crow did no tricks. Perhaps he was tired of showing
off. At any rate he flew into a tree over in the yard back of the home
of the Curlytops. Jim was allowed to fly about as he pleased, and was
well known in the neighborhood. He always flew home at night, though,
and slept in the kitchen.

“Oh, Mother!” called Janet, as she saw Mrs. Martin turning to go in the
house. “Could I take your little diamond locket? Not the big one, just
the little teeny one.”

Mrs. Martin had two diamond lockets, one a very expensive one, and the
other not so valuable. This small one had been given to her by her
husband when the Martins did not have as much money as they had now.
And for this reason Janet’s mother thought more of her small ornament
than she did of her more costly one.

“I just want to wear it playing house on the back porch,” Janet went on.

“Will you be very careful of it and bring it back to me as soon as you
have finished playing?” asked Mrs. Martin.

“Oh, yes,” promised the little girl. “I’ll be ever so careful, and I
won’t let Trouble or Ted have it.”

“Well, Ted would be all right,” said Mrs. Martin. “But Trouble might
drop it and step on it. I’ll let you take it for a half hour or so.”

She took the locket, with its tiny diamond, from her jewelry box, and
gave it into the eager hands of Janet. The little girl’s eyes sparkled
like twin diamonds as she clasped the ornament about her neck.

“Now be careful of it!” cautioned her mother, as Janet went back to
play house with Ted and Trouble.

“I will!” the little girl promised.

Ted was getting down out of the tree when Janet reached the porch, and
Trouble was digging in a new place for worms.

“You were gone a long time,” said Ted. “I blew the whistle three times.
I got to have my dinner,” he went on, “’cause the ship’s got to sail to
China right away soon.”

“Oh, all right, I’ll get your dinner quick,” offered Janet, pretending
to be serious. “I just stopped a minute to look at the tame crow,” she
said. “He stood on one leg for me.”

“He’s done it for me, too,” said Ted.

“And he could be in a show if he wanted to, only Mr. Jenk won’t sell
him,” added Janet.

“Maybe we could get up a circus and have him in one of the acts,”
suggested Ted. “Oh, mother let you take the diamond, didn’t she?” he
asked, as he saw the sparkle on Janet’s neck.

“Yes, I can wear it while we play house,” she answered. “Now I’ll get
dinner. Did you blow the whistle for Trouble to come?” she asked.

“Yes, I did. But he says he’s a fisherman, and fishermen only come when
a horn blows, so I got to blow a horn,” laughed Ted.

“Honk! Honk,” he went, pretending to be a horn. Then Trouble dropped
his shovel and hurried to the “house” to get some of the cookies before
his brother and sister might eat them all.

The children sat on some little chairs that had once been a doll’s
furniture set belonging to Janet, and they ate bits of cookies off a
box that formed the “dining-room table.”

“We’re having lots of fun!” said Janet.

“Piles of it!” agreed Ted.

“I likes it lots,” declared Trouble. “What you takin’ off ma’s diamond
for?” he asked Janet, for she was unclasping the locket from her neck.

“I have to wash the dishes,” she answered, “and you never wash dishes
with a diamond locket on.”

“Let me see locket!” begged Trouble, as Janet was about to lay it on
the box that served as the cupboard.

“Be very careful of it!” cautioned Janet. She let her small brother
take the sparkling ornament in his hand and admire it for a few
moments. Then Janet took it again and put it on the box. She was
preparing to “wash the dishes,” which was only make-believe, of
course; Trouble was again digging in his hole; Ted was up in the tree,
pretending to be an airship conductor; when suddenly there sounded a
loud crash in front of the house.

“Something’s happened!” exclaimed Janet.

“I go see!” offered Trouble, dropping his shovel.

“It’s an automobile smash-up!” shouted Ted. “I can see it from here!”
and he began to scramble down from the tree. “Two cars are smashed up!”
he went on.

The two Curlytops and Trouble hurried to the front gate, anxious to see
what had happened.




CHAPTER II

THE MISSING DIAMOND


Three or four men, half a dozen boys and a policeman were running
toward the two automobiles that, as Ted had said, were in a “smash-up.”
The accident had happened directly in front of the home of the
Curlytops, and they were anxious to know if anyone had been hurt. They
also wanted to know how it had happened.

“My, that one car is all smashed!” cried Janet.

“They’re both smashed!” said Ted.

“It’s like when my toy train ran into the stove!” said Trouble, trying
to wiggle his way between his brother and sister so that he might first
get out of the front gate and nearer to the scene of the accident.

Just then Skyrocket, the Curlytops’ dog, came rushing, barking, out of
the house. He, too, had heard the excitement.

“Look out, Trouble! Look out!” cried Janet, as she saw what was about
to happen. But it was too late. Skyrocket tried to dash between the
legs of little William, but the opening was not wide enough, and
Trouble stumbled and fell in a heap on the dog.

Dog and boy howled together, though neither of them was much hurt.
At the same time Janet saw the policeman lift a man from one of the
wrecked cars.

“Oh, I guess they’ll have to take him to the hospital!” she exclaimed.

“Maybe,” agreed Ted, as he stopped to pick Trouble up, finding that his
small brother was more frightened than hurt.

Then the three Martin children proceeded on out into the street to look
at the accident, about which had gathered a crowd of men and boys, with
a few girls and women.

And while the policeman is trying to find out how it all happened,
and look after the two injured men--for there were two--this will
be a chance to let my new readers know a little something about the
Curlytops--who they were, where they lived, and what they had done up
to this time. I will not take very long in telling it, as I think you
want to keep on with the story part.

Ted, or Teddy, whose real name was Theodore, and Janet, or “Jan,” as
she was called for short, were the children of Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Martin, who owned a large store in Cresco, in an eastern state. Because
of their ringlets of golden hair, Ted and Janet were called Curlytops,
and under that name I have written several books about them. The first
volume is called “The Curlytops at Cherry Farm,” and while there the
children, including small William Anthony Martin, otherwise known as
“Trouble,” had many adventures.

Following that the Curlytops went to Star Island, they were snowed in,
they visited at Uncle Frank’s ranch, and spent a vacation at Silver
Lake. Then they helped take care of some animal pets belonging to
Uncle Toby, and just before the present story I told of the adventures
of Ted, Janet and Trouble in the book named “The Curlytops and Their
Playmates.”

The Curlytops--and I include Trouble with them, though his hair did
not curl as did that of Ted and Janet--were always playing and having
adventures, just as you have read about them starting to play house in
this book.

As I have mentioned, Trouble was always in mischief of some sort or
other, and often it might not be his fault--it was more of an accident,
as when Skyrocket the dog tried to run between the legs of the little
fellow.

For a time all was forgotten about playing house. Janet gave no more
heed to being dressed like a lady to get Daddy Ted’s supper. Ted forgot
all about playing conductor in the tree airship, and while Trouble was
with his brother and sister looking at the auto accident, all the worms
he had dug crawled out of the shallow can into which he had put them,
and away they wiggled.

The accident was rather a serious one. Two cars had come together with
a loud crash right in front of the Curlytops’ house, and both were
badly damaged. The driver of each one was hurt and Policeman Kelly had
to call the ambulance to take them both to the hospital.

“How did it happen?” asked Ted of Harry Kent, one of his chums.

“I didn’t see it,” Harry answered; “but I heard a man say one car tried
to turn the corner and the man in it didn’t put his hand out.”

“You ought always to put your hand out when you’re going to turn a
corner,” said Ted.

“Sure you ought,” agreed Harry. “I guess he’ll do it after this.”

“Here comes the ambulance!” cried Janet, as a loudly clanging bell was
heard down the street. Up dashed the vehicle and soon the doctor was
attending to the two men, who had been laid on the grass near the curb.

After putting some bandages on the injured men the doctor had some
bystanders help him lift them into the ambulance and away they were
taken, leaving the two smashed cars for the crowd to stare at.

The Curlytops met many of their friends at the accident, for boys and
girls, hearing of it, came from the near-by houses. And Ted, Janet and
Trouble knew most of the girls and boys for several blocks around.

The excitement of the accident drove all thoughts of playing house from
the minds of the Curlytops and they remained out in front of their
house so long, talking with their playmates, that it was time for Mr.
Martin to come home from the store for supper before Ted and Janet
thought of what they had been doing. Mrs. Martin had also come out to
look at the wrecked automobiles, but had gone inside again, to tell the
cook about the meal.

“Well, Curlytops, did you do this?” asked Daddy Martin, with a laugh,
as he stopped in front of his house to watch men from a garage starting
to take away the wrecked cars. “I suppose Trouble did the most of it,”
added Mr. Martin.

“I not mash those autos!” cried Trouble, evidently thinking his father
was in earnest. “They did mash up theirselves!”

“And a pretty good piece of work they made of it,” said Mr. Martin.
“Anyone hurt, Curlytops?” he asked.

“The two drivers,” said Ted.

There was a rustling in the tree under which the children stood talking
with their father, and, looking up, Janet cried:

“It’s Jim, Mr. Jenk’s crow!”

“He’s flying home,” added Ted

“Well, what have you been doing all day, children?” asked Mr. Martin.
“Don’t take that, Trouble!” he quickly cried, as the little boy pulled
some papers from the side pocket of his father’s coat. “I need those.
I’ll have to use them if I go to Mount Major to open a store for the
lumber camp.”

“Oh, are you going away?” cried Janet.

“For a while, maybe,” her father answered, as he looked to make sure
Trouble had taken none of his papers.

“When are you going?” asked Ted. “Mount Major is where they cut lumber,
isn’t it, Dad?”

“Yes, they cut a great deal of lumber there,” said Mr. Martin, as he
watched the lame, tame crow of his neighbor fly down into a tree in Mr.
Jenk’s yard. “And they are starting work for the summer now, felling a
lot of trees to get ready to saw up into lumber this fall. They want me
to go up there and start a store, so the lumbermen may be able to buy
things to eat without having to travel so far.”

“Are you going?” asked Janet.

“When?” inquired Ted once more.

“Oh, it’s too early to talk about that now,” laughed Mr. Martin. “But
tell me what you Curlytops did all day. I suppose you studied your
lessons, didn’t you?”

“Lessons? On Saturday!” cried Janet, not seeing the funny twinkle in
her father’s eyes.

“He’s only joking!” declared Ted, and this was true. Mr. Martin liked
to tease his children a little.

“Well, what were you doing?” he asked. “It looks as though Trouble had
been digging in the garden,” he added.

“I was diggin’ worms for to go fishin’ with,” said the little boy.

“And he fell down when Skyrocket tried to run between his legs,” added
Teddy.

“That was when we heard the auto crash and all ran out to see what it
was,” explained Janet. “Before that we were playing house, and Trouble
was going to be a miner, and Ted was a conductor on an airship up in a
tree, and I was--Oh, I was----”

Janet suddenly stopped speaking, clapped her hand over her mouth and
started to run around to the back porch.

“I forgot all about it!” she cried.

“What is it?” asked Mr. Martin, for he could tell by Janet’s face that
it was something important. “What did she forget about?” asked Mr.
Martin of Ted and Trouble.

The two boys shook their heads. Their father followed Janet around to
the back door and the brothers went with him. They saw Janet eagerly
searching about the playhouse, looking on and in boxes and around the
chairs and pieces of wood. Just then Mrs. Martin came to the back door.
She greeted her husband with a kiss and then, turning to Janet, she
said:

“Please give me back my diamond locket, my dear. You have played with
it long enough.”

“Oh, Mother!” gasped Janet. “Haven’t you--didn’t you come out and take
it? Haven’t you your locket?”

“Why, no, Janet, I haven’t it,” was the surprised answer. “I let you
take it and you said you would bring it back to me.”

“I know I did, and I meant to. I took it off my neck to wash the dishes
after our play dinner, and Trouble asked me to let him look at it
and--Oh, Trouble, you have mother’s locket, haven’t you? That’s right,
I let you take it. What did you do with it? Where is mother’s shiny
gold and diamond locket, Trouble?”

Trouble looked surprised.

“I no have got it,” he said.

“But I let you take it!” insisted Janet. “You wanted to hold it in your
hand because it sparkled so nice, and I let you. Didn’t you have the
locket, Trouble?”

“Yes, I did have,” gravely admitted the small boy. “An’ it was pretty.
It shined like the sun. But I gived it back to you, Jan. You put it on
the box in the play kitchen. Don’t you ’member? I gived it back to you
out of mine own hand!”

Janet gave a start and looked at the box. She remembered now.

“Yes, that’s right, Trouble. You did give it back to me after I let you
take it,” she said slowly. “You gave it back to me and I put it on the
box so I wouldn’t catch anything in the chain when I unset the play
table and washed the dishes. Ted, you didn’t take the locket, did you?”
she asked, turning to her older brother.

“No,” he answered. “But I saw you put it on the box. It ought to be
there now.”

“Well, it isn’t,” and there were tears in Janet’s eyes. “Oh, Mother,”
she half-sobbed, “I can’t find your lovely diamond locket! I’m afraid
it’s lost!”

Mrs. Martin looked anxious, for the locket was one she prized very
highly. She did not want to lose it.

“Perhaps it may have been knocked off the box when you all ran out to
see the auto accident,” suggested Mr. Martin. “Be careful where you
step, and we’ll look around the porch.”

This was done, but with all the searching no diamond locket was found.
Mrs. Martin helped, and after all the boxes, boards and toy furniture
had been cleared from the rear porch the place was carefully swept.

“Well, I guess it’s gone,” said Mr. Martin, looking at his wife. “I
shall have to buy you another.”

“I don’t want any other!” exclaimed Mrs. Martin, with tears in her
eyes. “I want my own dear little diamond locket! Oh, Janet, why did you
lose it?”

“I--I didn’t mean to,” and Janet began to sob.

“Oh, I know you didn’t, child,” said her mother, patting the curly
head. “I shouldn’t have given in to you and let you take it. Are you
sure Trouble didn’t drop it somewhere?”

“I no take it!” stoutly cried William. “I did hab locket but I gived
it back to Jan and she losted it. I not lost _everything_!” and he was
quite indignant about it, for Trouble knew that he had no very good
reputation about losing things.

“Yes, Trouble gave it back to me,” declared Janet. “And I put it on
the box. Maybe I picked it up again and was going to put it on my neck
when the auto crash happened. I don’t exactly remember what I did with
it. Oh, dear, I wish I could find it!”

“Never mind,” consoled Mrs. Martin. “If it’s gone it can’t be helped.
We’ll look around the yard to-morrow.”

But before the next day came something else happened.

It was after supper in the home of the Curlytops. They had been talking
over the events of the day, including the tricks of Jim, the black
crow, the loss of the locket, and the auto crash, when the telephone
bell jingled. Mr. Martin answered, but at almost the first words he
heard over the wire he cried:

“What’s that? My store on fire? I’ll be right down!”




CHAPTER III

THE LOST CROW


You can imagine better than I can tell you how much excitement there
was in the home of the Curlytops when Mr. Martin cried.

“My store is on fire!”

Mrs. Martin was so excited that she dropped one of Trouble’s stockings
she was darning. Inside was a round wooden stocking-darner that fell to
the floor with a crash.

“Oh, Daddy!” cried Jan, in alarm. It seemed a terrible thing to know
that her father’s store was burning.

As for Mrs. Martin, after she had dropped the stocking, she sat looking
at her husband, not knowing what to say.

Ted cried:

“Send for the fire engines!”

“They’re already there!” said Mr. Martin, as he ran from the room.

“I’m coming!” shouted Ted, following his father.

“No, you mustn’t go! Stay here!” commanded his mother.

“I got a little fire engine!” was what Trouble said. He did not
understand that a big engine, pumping much water, was needed to put out
a large fire.

“Please, Mother, I just got to go!” pleaded Ted, as he reached the
door, out of which his father had hurried. “I want to help daddy!”

Mrs. Martin was too dazed and surprised to say again that Teddy should
not go. She knew that he wanted to help, and he also wanted to see a
fire. Any boy would.

It was early, hardly dark yet, and Mr. Martin’s store was not far away.
Ted had often gone down there alone in the evening.

“Be careful!” Ted’s mother called to him, as he ran out of the front
door and down the street after his father. There were other men and
boys on the sidewalk now, all running toward the scene of the fire.
There were even some women and a few girls. But Jan remained at home
with her mother and Trouble.

Mr. Martin heard pattering behind him the sound of little feet that he
knew well. Turning, he saw Ted.

“You’d better go back,” warned the boy’s father.

“Please, I want to come! I’ll help!” promised the Curlytop lad.

“I’m afraid you can’t help very much,” said Mr. Martin. “But as long as
you have come this far, I’ll have to take you. Give me your hand!”

With his father’s fingers clasping his, Ted found it much easier to run
along. They were nearing the store and now could hear the tooting and
clanging of the engines and the shouts of men and boys, mingled with
the barking of dogs. Mr. Martin, in his excitement, was running so fast
that Ted could hardly keen up, but the Curlytop boy managed to skip
along, never letting go his father’s hand.

Suddenly, as they turned a corner, Mr. Martin and Ted saw the crowd in
the street. They saw one engine pumping water, and another, with smoke
pouring from the stack, was getting ready to work. There was also a
cloud of smoke coming from an outside shed of Mr. Martin’s store.

“The fire’s in the shed, Ted!” exclaimed the boy’s father, in relief.
“I guess it won’t amount to very much.”

“I’m glad of that,” Ted answered. It was about all he could say, for he
was quite out of breath from having run so fast with his father.

Just then there was a sudden banging and popping noise, and a shower
of sparks shot out from the shed attached to the store. Then came some
balls of colored fire and next a skyrocket sailed out over the fire
engines and over the heads of the crowd, bursting with a pop up in the
air. Then more beautifully colored sparks, stars, and balls of fire
were scattered about.

“Oh, what is it, Daddy? Fourth of July?” cried Ted.

“That’s just about what it is,” answered Mr. Martin. “I wonder----”

His voice was drowned in another burst of sparks from the shed,
followed by another skyrocket and then some more loud poppings. Out of
the shed rushed a fireman, crying:

“There’s a lot of Roman candles and skyrockets going off in there! It
isn’t a fire at all!”

As he spoke another skyrocket whizzed over his head and the crowd
began to laugh.

“Fourth of July! Fourth of July!” yelled some boys, capering about.
They yelled again as many colored balls from some Roman candles shot
into the air.

“You’re celebrating Independence Day a little out of season, aren’t
you, Mr. Martin?” asked a man in the crowd.

“It begins to look that way,” laughed Mr. Martin. “I see what happened.
I had some fireworks stored in the shed. In some way the box must have
caught fire.”

Another rocket shot up, then some fire-crackers exploded and next came
a glare of red fire.

“Hurray! Hurray!” shouted the boys in the crowd, and Ted could not help
joining in, for this was the jolliest fire he had ever seen.

With the burst of red fire the display came to an end, the glare died
away, there was no longer any popping from the fire-crackers, and all
that could be seen was a lot of smoke pouring from the shed.

“I guess the worst is over,” said the fire chief, as he told the
fireman, who had run from the shed when the explosions began, to put
on a smoke-helmet and go back again to wet what sparks he might find.
Other firemen, also wearing smoke-helmets, went with him.

“Fire’s out, Chief!” the men reported a little later. “Not much damage
done.”

“That’s good,” remarked Mr. Martin.

“But there’s nothing left of that box of fireworks,” said another
fireman, with a grin, as he took off his smoke-helmet.

“No, I didn’t suppose there would be,” replied the store owner. “I
never should have left it there.”

“Who set off the skyrockets, Daddy?” asked Ted.

“They set themselves off after the box caught fire,” his father told
him. “But how the box caught I don’t know.” And the cause of the little
fire was never found out.

Really it was not much of a fire, for the only things that burned were
the fireworks and the box in which they had been stored. But there was
a great deal of smoke, as Ted discovered when he and his father went
into the store a little later. Some firemen and police officers also
went in, but the crowd was kept out. Ted felt proud that he could get
in ahead of the other boys. But then, of course, it was his father’s
store.

“Nothing at all burned up here,” said the fire chief, looking around.
“It didn’t even scorch the back wall.”

“That’s because you and your men got here so quickly with the engines,”
remarked Mr. Martin. “I’m much obliged to you.”

“There’s a lot of smoke, though,” said a policeman. “Must have come
from that window into the shed. It was partly open.”

“We’ll open some windows and let the smoke out,” said a fireman.
“You’ll have more damage by smoke than you will by fire or water, Mr.
Martin.”

“Well, smoke isn’t any too good for groceries,” said Ted’s father.
“About the only things I know of that are made better by smoke are hams
and herring. However, this might have been much worse. Who turned in
the alarm?”

“Mr. Blake,” said the chief, naming a man Mr. Martin knew. “He was
passing and saw smoke coming from the shed door. Then he telephoned to
fire headquarters.”

“I must thank him,” said Mr. Martin. “If the fire hadn’t been
discovered in time, my whole store might have burned. I’ll just let my
wife know the danger is past,” he added, going to the telephone in the
store office near the big safe.

Mrs. Martin soon heard the good news that what little fire there had
been was put out. There was nothing more to be done, and a policeman
said he would remain on guard in the store while the windows and doors
were kept open to let the smoke blow out during the night.

Then Ted and his father walked back home. The engines had gone back
to their quarters, the dogs had stopped barking, and the crowd had
vanished, for there was nothing more to be seen.

“Oh, Mother! It was just like Fourth of July!” cried Teddy as he
entered the house. “Skyrockets, an’ Roman candles an’ everything!”

“I wish I’d been there!” exclaimed Janet. “Didn’t the store burn at
all, Daddy?”

“No, only the box of fireworks in the shed.”

“But there will be some loss, won’t there?” asked Mrs. Martin.

“Well, yes, some,” her husband answered. “A few things will have to be
thrown away, because food does not taste good after it has been smoked,
and some other things may be blackened. But the insurance company
will pay me. And now, Curlytops, off to bed with you!” he cried. “It’s
getting late. Trouble is in Dreamland long ago, I’m sure.”

“Yes, I tucked him in,” said his mother. And when Ted and Janet had
gone up to bed their mother sighed a little and said: “My, but this has
been an exciting day!”

“You didn’t find your diamond locket, I suppose?” asked Mr. Martin.

“No. And I’m afraid I never shall,” answered his wife. “I shouldn’t
have allowed Janet to take it, but she begged so hard and they were
having such fun playing house that I gave in to her. I thought the
necklace would be safe on the porch.”

“Yes, you’d imagine it would,” agreed her husband. “I rather think
Trouble had a hand in the loss of your diamond,” he went on. “He must
have picked it up because it was bright and shiny, and then have
dropped it.”

“No, I think Trouble isn’t to blame this time,” replied Mrs. Martin.
“He does mischief enough, but this time he seems to know what he is
talking about. He had the locket in his hand, but gave it back to
Janet. And she isn’t sure what happened to it after the auto crash.”

“Well, it’s gone, at any rate, and there’s no use worrying about it,”
said Mr. Martin. “Now I must think what I am going to do to-morrow. I
can’t open the store until after the insurance people have figured out
how much they will pay me for my loss.”

“Will this spoil your plans?” asked his wife. “I mean can you get off
to Mount Major to start the store for the lumber camp?”

“Yes, I think so,” answered the father of the Curlytops. “In fact I
think this little fire will make it easier. I can’t do any business
here because my store will be closed until the loss is settled. And
while I’m waiting for that I can go to Mount Major. I’ll leave somebody
in charge. How would you like to go along?” he asked.

“You mean all of us?” she questioned. “I couldn’t very well go and
leave the children here.”

“Yes, I mean for all of us to go,” was the reply. “I shall have to
remain several weeks to get the lumber-camp store well started, and as
this is practically the beginning of the summer vacation in the school
the children can just as well go as not.”

“Where could we stay in the woods?” asked Mrs. Martin.

“There is a bungalow there--a very good one, I believe. I intended to
live in it myself, but there is room for us all.”

“The children will be delighted!” exclaimed Mrs. Martin. “To think of
spending a summer in the woods!”

“Yes, the Curlytops will like the woods all right, I think,” chuckled
Mr. Martin. “And so will Trouble. We’ll tell them about it in the
morning.”

Mr. Martin made an early trip to his store, to look over the damage by
daylight. When he came back the Curlytops and Trouble were having their
breakfasts.

“Is store all burned?” asked Trouble, pausing in his eating of oatmeal
and milk.

“Oh, no, not quite all burned,” laughed his father. “Why didn’t you
come down with your fire engine and help put the blaze out, Trouble?”
he asked, teasingly.

“Mother--she now--she wouldn’t let me,” stammered the little fellow,
getting ready to take a spoonful of oatmeal and milk. But somehow or
other, he missed his aim and part of the spoon’s contents spilled on
the table.

“Oh, look what you did!” cried Janet. “Look, Trouble!”

Trouble looked. He often soiled the tablecloth and more than once he
had been scolded for it, as his mother did not want him to fall into
careless table manners.

“Now you did it!” cried Janet.

“Yep--yep--I did spill some _milk_,” admitted Trouble. “But--but
you--you--now--you now--_lost mother’s diamond locket_!” accused the
little fellow.

“Never mind, Trouble! It couldn’t be helped,” said his father, as he
took up the spilled milk.

“Oh, dear!” sighed Janet. “I’m so sorry, Mother, and I----”

“Never mind, my dear!” soothed Mrs. Martin. “We may find the locket
yet.”

But there were tears in the little girl’s eyes, and Ted, too, felt a
bit sad, for he thought that in moving about the boxes in the playhouse
he might have knocked the locket down into some hole or crack where it
could never be found.

“Don’t worry about it,” went on Mrs. Martin. “Tell them the good news,
Daddy, and cheer them up.”

“What good news?” asked Ted.

“Is it about the fire?” asked Janet. “Wasn’t it your place after all,
Daddy?”

“Oh, there was a fire in my store all right,” her father told her. “But
it didn’t really amount to much. However, the fire will not prevent my
going to the Mount Major lumber camp, to start a supply store there for
the men. And your mother and I have decided that we shall all go there
and spend the summer vacation.”

“Up to Mount Major?” cried Ted.

“Yes,” his father said.

“In the woods?” exclaimed Janet, clapping her hands.

“Yes.”

“Oh, what fun!” cried the Curlytops together, and Trouble, finishing
his oatmeal, added:

“I likes to have fun!”

“We know that!” chuckled Ted.

And then followed such a lot of talk and so much laughter over the
happy days to come that it is a wonder anyone ate any breakfast. And
when the meal was nearly over there came a ring at the door, and Mr.
Jenk, the neighbor in the adjoining house, came in.

“Sorry to disturb you, Mr. Martin,” said Mr. Jenk, “especially after
your fire trouble.”

“You’re not disturbing us,” said Mr. Martin pleasantly. “As for the
fire, it didn’t amount to as much as we feared. It was really only some
fireworks.”

“What I came over for,” said Mr. Jenk, as he took his seat in a chair,
“is to ask you if you have seen Jim this morning.”

“Your tame crow?” asked Mr. Martin.

“Yes, Jim,” went on Mr. Jenk. “My crow is missing, and I wouldn’t lose
him for a good deal. He’s worth more than a hundred dollars and he gets
cuter and smarter every day.”

“Oh, is Jim gone?” exclaimed Ted. “How did it happen?”

“That’s what I don’t know,” answered Mr. Jenk. “He came in last night,
as he always does, just before dark, and he went to sleep on his perch
in the kitchen. But this morning he was gone. I know he used to come
over here quite often, and I thought perhaps some of you might have
seen him.”

“We saw him yesterday afternoon,” replied Janet, and Ted nodded his
head at this. “But we haven’t seen him this morning.”

“It’s too bad,” said Mr. Jenk, as he arose to leave. “I’d give a good
deal to get my crow back. That theater man said he was one of the best
trick birds he’d ever seen.”

“He looked so funny when he stood on one leg and stuck the other out,”
added Janet.

“Yes, that was one of the first tricks I taught him,” remarked Mr. Jenk.

“Yes, and he could make a noise like popping corks as real as
anything!” said Teddy. “Come on, Janet,” he added. “Let’s go look for
Jim. Maybe he’s out in a tree.”

As the children were about to leave the table, Mrs. Martin suddenly
raised her hand for silence and called:

“Hark!”

Out in the kitchen sounded a loud “pop!”

“There’s Jim now!” cried Ted, making a rush for the kitchen.




CHAPTER IV

TROUBLE’S SQUIRREL


Ted Martin was not alone in his rush for the kitchen. He was followed
by Janet and Trouble. Only Trouble did not get very far. For Skyrocket,
the dog, who had been asleep in a corner, roused up suddenly at the
sound of Ted’s hurrying steps and managed to get in Trouble’s way.

The result was that Trouble fell down. But, as he was a fat, chubby
little chap, a fall did not harm him much. Only this time he stepped on
Skyrocket’s paw and the dog howled.

“My! More excitement!” laughed Mother Martin, as she followed Ted and
Janet, first stopping to pick up Trouble and make sure he wasn’t hurt.
Mr. Martin and Neighbor Jenk followed more slowly.

“Where’s Jim?” asked Ted of Lucy, the colored cook.

“Whar am who, chile?” asked Lucy.

“Where is Jim, Mr. Jenk’s tame crow?” repeated Ted.

“We heard him out here, making a noise like pulling a cork from a
bottle,” added Janet. “Where did he go, Lucy?”

“Yo’ mean a Jim crow was out heah makin’ believe pull corks from a
bottle?” asked the cook.

“Yes, it’s one of his tricks,” explained Mr. Jenk, though as he looked
around the kitchen and saw no glistening black bird he began to wonder.

“Dat wasn’t no crow pullin’ a cork!” said Lucy, with a laugh that shook
her fat sides.

“What was it then?” asked Mr. Martin.

“It was me! Ah done pulled a cork from de vinegah bottle,” explained
Lucy, and she showed them a bottle of vinegar she had just opened.
Pulling the cork had caused a popping sound like that made by Jim the
pet crow.

“Then he isn’t here,” said Mr. Jenk.

“No, sah. Ah ain’t seen no crow,” answered Lucy. “Dat bird suah am too
smart,” she went on. “He done hab de evil eye, he suah hab!”

“You mustn’t say such things, Lucy,” chided Mrs. Martin. “There isn’t
any such thing as an evil eye.”

“Well, mebby dey ain’t,” admitted the cook. “But ef dey _was_ a evil
eye, dat Jim crow suah would hab it!”

“He’s smart, all right,” admitted Mr. Jenk. “Well, as long as my crow
isn’t here I may as well go back and look elsewhere for him. I hope I
find him.”

“So do we,” echoed Ted.

“If you see anything of him, either catch him or let me know,” begged
the owner of Jim. “I’ll give a reward of five dollars for him.”

“I’d like to earn all that money,” sighed Ted, for he had visions of
what he could buy with five dollars. “But we’re going away to Mount
Major, to live in a lumber camp, and I guess we won’t see Jim up there,
Mr. Jenk.”

“No, I don’t suppose you will,” admitted the neighbor, with a sigh.
“But if you do see him let me know. Jim was a valuable crow! So you are
going to Mount Major, are you?”

“Yes,” replied the Curlytops’ father, and told about the proposed trip.

Mr. Jenk went back home, and then the Curlytops talked of their coming
outing in the woods. Trouble found the pail and shovel with which he
had been playing the day before and started for the garden.

“Where are you going?” asked his mother.

“I go dig more worms,” he answered. “I got to have a lot of worms to
fish with.”

“Where are you going fishing?” Ted wanted to know.

“I fish in lake up by daddy’s lumber camp,” was the reply. “Daddy, he
say there’s lake.”

“Yes, there is,” said Mrs. Martin, in answer to looks from Ted and
Janet. “There is also a river, I believe, down which logs are floated.
But you’ll see all this when we go to Mount Major.”

“When are we going?” asked Ted.

“And how?” Janet wanted to know. “In the train?”

“I think we are going by auto the end of this week,” answered Mrs.
Martin, for after the search for the crow Mr. Martin had gone back to
his store to meet the fire insurance agents.

“Oh, what fun we’ll have!” joyously cried Janet.

“The best times we ever knew!” agreed her Curlytop brother.

“Let’s go look for Mr. Jenk’s crow,” proposed Janet, and out they ran
to the fields and a little patch of woods not far from their home.

“Where you go?” asked Trouble, as he looked up from his digging to
watch his brother and sister. “I come,” he added, not bothering to put
in all the words.

“We’re going to look for Jim,” said Ted.

“I find him!” declared Trouble, as if it were easy to locate a missing
crow. Though Jim was lame in his legs, and could only hobble about, his
wings were as strong as ever and he could fly many miles.

“Yes, you’ll find him--not!” laughed Ted. “You’ll find him as we found
mother’s missing diamond.”

“Oh, don’t talk about that!” pleaded Janet, who felt very sad over the
lost locket.

The search for the tame crow was no more successful than had been the
one for the diamond locket. The children looked through the fields and
in the little patch of woods, calling:

“Jim! Jim! Jim!”

But there came no “Caw! Caw!” in answer, nor did the Curlytops hear
the sound of popping corks.

“It’s too bad about Mr. Jenk’s crow,” said Ted, after they had tramped
about for some time with no success.

“Maybe he flew off to go in some show,” suggested Janet, with a laugh.
“He likes to do his tricks and have us watch him.”

“There’s no telling where he is,” decided Ted. “I guess we may as well
go back home. If we’re going to camp out in the woods I have lots of
things I want to take along.”

“So have I,” decided Janet. “I don’t know which of my dolls to take.”

“Take ’em all,” suggested Ted.

“Theodore Martin! As if I could take a _dozen_ dolls!” cried Janet.

“A dozen? Have you a dozen dolls?” asked her brother, in surprise.

“Course I have! And I know some girls that have ’most two dozen,” said
Janet.

“Whew!” whistled Ted. “Two dozen dolls! That’s terrible!”

“’Tisn’t any such thing!” declared Janet. “How many marbles have you,
Ted Martin?”

“Oh, I guess maybe I have a hundred. But marbles are different,
and----”

“How many _tops_ have you, Ted Martin?”

“Well, maybe, now, about ten or eleven. But----”

“How many _boats_ have you, Ted Martin?”

“Oh, about nine, but----”

“Well, don’t talk to me about a dozen _dolls_!” cried Janet. “You boys
are just as bad as we girls that way.”

“Maybe we are,” replied Ted, with a laugh. “Hello, where’s Trouble?” he
asked suddenly, looking around and not seeing his small brother.

“He was here a moment ago,” said Janet, and her voice grew a little
anxious.

“I know he was,” said Ted. “But he isn’t here now. Oh, Trouble!” he
called loudly.

There was no answer.

“Maybe he’s lost,” suggested Janet.

“He can’t be lost very long or very far,” Ted assured her. “For he was
right here not more than two minutes ago and he couldn’t go far in that
time.”

“Call again,” suggested Janet, and Ted raised his voice in a loud shout.

“Trouble! William! Trouble!”

Thus Ted called, but as he and his sister listened there was no answer.

“He must have wandered off somewhere when we didn’t notice,” suggested
Janet. “We’d better hurry back home and get mother and Skyrocket.
Skyrocket can smell which way Trouble went and find him.”

“Yes, I guess we’d better do that,” agreed Ted. “I never saw such a boy
as he is for doing things!”

Just as Ted and Janet were about to hurry home and tell their mother
the news, they heard a noise in the underbrush at the edge of the
woods. The figure of a boy was dimly seen, and Janet cried:

“There he is!”

But when the boy came out of the bushes it was not Trouble. It was
Henry Simpson, a playmate of Trouble’s, though somewhat older.

“Oh, Henry, have you seen Trouble?” asked Ted.

“Yes, I saw him,” said Henry, who was not much of a talker. You had to
ask a separate question for everything you wanted Henry to tell you.

“You saw Trouble! Where is he?” cried Janet.

“Over there,” and Henry pointed to a little gully in the woods where,
during the spring rains, a stream flowed.

“What’s he doing there?” asked Janet, while Ted started on a run for
the place pointed out by Henry.

“He’s chasin’ a squirrel,” added the other boy.

“Chasing a squirrel?” cried Janet. “Why, he never can catch a squirrel,
and he oughtn’t to try. He might get hurt. Why didn’t you tell him he
couldn’t catch a squirrel, Henry?”

“I did tell him,” and Henry grinned.

“What did he say?” asked Janet, as she followed Ted across the path
toward the gully.

“He told me to go home an’ not bother him, ’cause he was goin’ to catch
a squirrel an’ have the squirrel find the lost crow,” said Henry. This
was quite a long sentence for him, and having gotten it out he turned
around and walked off.

“Where you going?” asked Janet.

“Home,” was all Henry answered.

And home he went.

But Ted and Janet hurried on to the little gully, or valley, in the
woods. There was no water flowing in it now and the place was quite
dry. As the Curlytops reached the edge of it, they heard, down below
them, some one pushing through the dried bushes.

“Trouble! Trouble!” cried Ted. “Are you there?”

“Yes, I here,” was the reply. “Don’t scare my squirrel!”

“Your squirrel!” exclaimed Janet. “Have you caught one?”

“I get him pretty soon,” Trouble called back. “I almost got him twice,
but he skips!”

“Squirrels are great skippers,” laughed Ted.

They went down a little farther into the gully and there saw Trouble.
He was walking slowly along, holding out his hand in which he held a
nut. And not far from him, skipping from limb to limb of a tree, was a
large gray squirrel.

“Are you trying to catch that squirrel, Trouble?” asked Ted.

“No,” was the answer. “I want feed him an’ make him show me where Jim
crow is.”

“You’d better go down there and get Trouble,” Janet advised her brother.

“I will,” he said.

“And maybe you might see Jim,” added the little Curlytop girl.

“I’ll look,” offered Ted. “Though if there was a crow here I guess he’d
be cawing.”

However, there was no sight of the glistening black bird, and Ted made
his way down the side of the gully. Trouble was on the very bottom,
where the stream ran whenever there was any water, but the course was
now dry. And because he was down in the gully, Trouble had not heard
his brother and sister calling to him.

“Come back, Trouble! Let the squirrel go!” called Ted.

“I give him this nut!” insisted the little fellow. “He is a good
squirrel an’----”

But Trouble did not finish that sentence.

The next moment, to the surprise of Ted and Janet, their little brother
fell down and vanished from sight.




CHAPTER V

OFF TO MOUNT MAJOR


“Did you see that, Ted? Did you see where Trouble went?” cried Janet.

“Yes, I saw him fall, but I don’t know where he went,” Ted answered. “I
guess he’s down in a hole.”

“Oh, maybe there’s water in it and he’ll drown!” went on Janet.

“There isn’t any water here now,” said Ted.

And it was a good thing the gully had gone dry, for Trouble had fallen
into a hole that was filled with deep water when the stream was rushing
through the gully. But, as Ted remarked, it was now dry.

For a moment after his tumble Trouble uttered no sound. And then he
yelled:

“Come an’ get me! Come an’ get me out, Ted!”

[Illustration: “YES, I HERE,” WAS THE REPLY. “DON’T SCARE MY SQUIRREL!”

“The Curlytops in the Woods.” Page 50]

“I’m coming!” answered the older boy. “Don’t be afraid, Trouble! I’m
coming!”

By the time Janet reached the edge of the leaf-filled hole into which
Trouble had fallen, Teddy had pulled out his little brother. Trouble
was not much hurt, being only bruised, but he was covered with leaves
and dirt.

“There, there, William, you’re all right,” soothed Ted.

“Don’t cry!” begged Janet. “We’ll take you to the store and buy you a
lollypop.”

Trouble rubbed his tears away, but in doing so wiped a lot of dirt from
his hands all over his face so that he was quite a sad looking sight.
However, Janet cleaned him up as best she could with her handkerchief.

“Now you’re as good as ever,” laughed Ted, as he picked off the dead
leaves clinging to his small brother. “What were you doing down there,
anyhow?”

“I wanted to get squirrel an’ have him show me where crow is,”
explained Trouble.

Of course he didn’t get near the squirrel, and, even if he had given
the big-tailed creature the nut, the squirrel would not have eaten it,
as it was wormy and had no kernel in it.

“But maybe to-morrow I find another nut an’ I give that to squirrel an’
he find Jim crow,” said Trouble, as he walked home with Ted and Janet.

“It’s too early for this year’s nuts,” said Ted. “Anyhow, we have to
pack up our things to go to Mount Major.”

“Oh, yes, I go to woods!” laughed Trouble. “An’ I take my fire engine
an’ squirt on fire.”

They reached home and told their mother about the little adventure. She
warned Trouble he mustn’t do such a thing again as wandering off by
himself.

“No’m, I won’t!” Trouble promised.

“But if he doesn’t do that he’ll do something else just as
troublesome,” said Janet, with a sigh. And Trouble did.

These were busy days in the home of the Curlytops. Mr. Martin had much
to do to get matters straightened out about his smoke-harmed store, and
he had also to get ready to go to the lumber camp in the woods to start
the supply store there. Mrs. Martin must pack the things that were to
be taken for a long vacation stay--she must see to the clothing for
herself and the three children. The food supplies Mr. Martin would
look after, as he had to ship up several cars of groceries to stock the
lumber supply store.

Lucy, the colored cook, was to be taken along. Once, though, after they
had talked over the joys of camping in the woods, Lucy came in where
Mr. and Mrs. Martin were sitting, after the children had gone to bed,
and said:

“Please, ma’am, Mrs. Martin, Ah doan t’ink Ah’d bettah go off to de
woods wif yo’ all.”

“Why not, Lucy?” asked Mrs. Martin, in surprise. “I have been counting
on you.”

“Yais, ma’am,” went on Lucy. “But, all de same, Mrs. Martin, Ah’s
kinder skairt ob dem jinkses.”

“Jinkses! What do you mean?” asked Mr. Martin.

“Why, Teddy he done tole me dat de woods am filled an’ runnin’ ober wif
jinkses. Dey’s animiles wif curtain tassles on der ears. Ah doan t’ink
Ah’d laik ’em much, Mrs. Martin, ma’am!”

“Nonsense!” laughed Mr. Martin. “Teddy must have been talking about
the lynx, or bobcat. They do have tassels, or tufts, of hair on their
ears, but they won’t hurt you, Lucy!”

“No? Won’t dey, Mistah Martin?” she asked anxiously.

“No, indeed, Lucy. Ted shouldn’t have spoken of the bobcats in the
woods. I don’t believe we’ll see one. But if you should, Lucy, the lynx
would run as soon as it saw you.”

“Golly! He wouldn’t done run any faster dan Ah would!” chuckled the
cook. “All right. Den Ah guess Ah goes!”

This much settled, there were other matters to be looked after before
the trip to Mount Major could be started. As Mr. Martin had thought,
the settlement of his fire loss by the insurance company would take
some time. During that time his store would be in charge of a trusted
man whose name was Henderson, and he could thus well afford to go to
the lumber camp.

The Curlytops and Trouble were so excited over the prospect of fun in
the lumber camp that nothing they played around their home now, and no
sports that they took part in with their playmates, seemed to satisfy
them. They were always thinking of what they would do at Mount Major,
and planning picnics and excursions there.

“I’m going to set a trap and see if I can’t catch a lynx,” declared Ted.

“Well, don’t scare Lucy any more, no matter what you do,” begged his
mother. “First I know, she’ll leave and then we’ll have no cook.”

“I’ll be careful,” promised Ted.

Janet had packed her dolls, Teddy his toys, and Trouble had filled a
box with odds and ends of things he wanted to take to the woods. But
afterward Mrs. Martin went over all the children’s boxes and took out a
great many things without telling them about it.

“They’ll never miss them,” she said to her husband. “But if I let them
take all they wanted there would be no room for anything else.”

“Yes, they have queer ideas,” he agreed. “I don’t suppose you found
your diamond locket?” he asked.

“No,” his wife replied, with a sigh. “I have given it up. I don’t say
much about it, for I don’t want Janet to feel too bad about losing
it. As I should never have let her take it, it is as much my fault as
hers.”

The trip to Mount Major was to be made, as I have told you, in Mr.
Martin’s large automobile. In this would also be carried the baggage
and some food and supplies that would last the party until the things
sent by express had arrived from Cresco.

It was a long day’s travel by automobile from Cresco to Mount Major,
and so Mr. Martin planned to get an early morning start on the day that
was set for the trip.

“We will have an early breakfast here,” said Mr. Martin. “We will lunch
on the road. And if we have luck we’ll have supper in our bungalow in
the woods.”

“Oh, I just know we’ll have the loveliest fun!” cried Janet.

“That’s right!” agreed Ted.

“An’ maybe I find Jim crow,” said Trouble.

So far no trace had been found of the missing lame bird pet of Mr.
Jenk. Jim seemed to have disappeared. Once or twice he had flown away,
to be gone perhaps a day or so, but he had never remained away as long
as this before, his owner declared.

The Curlytops and other children of the neighborhood had searched
through the near-by woods and fields for Jim, but had not heard his
harsh cawing cry nor had they heard him “pull corks.” And of course no
one had seen him stand on one leg, with the other stuck stiffly out and
his head, with his sharp, beady eyes, thrust to one side.

Jim was not to be found, and Mr. Jenk felt sorry to lose the crow. He
even published a notice in the Cresco paper about Jim, offering now a
reward of ten dollars for the return of his pet.

“If I find the crow I’ll give you half the reward,” promised Ted to his
sister.

“And if I find him I’ll give you half,” she added. “If I get the five
dollars I’ll buy me a new doll carriage.”

“And I’ll get roller skates, a steam engine, a foot ball, some ice
skates and a baseball bat,” decided Ted.

“My!” laughed his father, “you must think the five dollars are going to
be rubber ones that will stretch out enough to buy a whole store full
of toys.”

“Well, I can get something, anyhow!” declared Ted.

“First find the crow,” his father told him.

Teddy and Janet made up their minds they would spend all the remainder
of the time before leaving for Mount Major looking for Jim. This they
did, but without result. Jim remained lost.

Then came the glad day on which they were to start. As much as possible
had been packed into the automobile which was roomy. And then in piled
Mr. and Mrs. Martin, taking Trouble on the front seat with them, while
Ted, Janet and Lucy rode on the rear seat.

“I’ll take care of you, Lucy, if any bobcats come after you,” promised
Teddy.

“Har! Har!” laughed fat Lucy. “Ah ain’t skairt ob no bobcats no mo’.
Yo’ papa done told me ’bout ’em! Ah ain’t skairt! Har! Har!”

Off they started, the Curlytops and Trouble waving their hands to their
playmates who gathered to bid them good-bye and wish them a happy
summer in the woods.

Mr. Martin drove around past his store, for he wanted to leave a last
word with Mr. Henderson, who was in charge, and the children could see
where carpenters were at work repairing the burned shed, for there had
been some slight damage there, it was later discovered.

On through the town, out into the beautiful country, rolled the
automobile, with Ted and Janet now and then breaking out into short
snatches of song to show how happy they were.

They stopped for lunch along a beautiful road that led through the
woods, and after eating they walked around to “stretch their legs,” as
Mr. Martin called it.

“But we must not delay too long,” said daddy, after a while. “We have a
long way yet to go, and I don’t want to arrive after dark. Better pile
in, Curlytops!”

Once more the automobile was filled. Mr. Martin started the motor and
let in the clutch. But something was wrong. The car moved a little way
and then came to a stop with a jerk. The engine stalled.

“What’s wrong?” asked Mrs. Martin.

“I don’t know,” her husband answered. “Maybe I didn’t give her enough
gas.”

Once more he started off, but this time there was a sudden stop,
followed by a crashing, splintering sound.

“Oh, we’re pulling a tree down behind us!” cried Janet. “Stop, Daddy!”




CHAPTER VI

THE HAY WAGON


Daddy Martin put on the brakes very quickly and pushed on the pedal
that threw out the clutch. With a squeak of the brake bands the car
came to a stop. The cracking, splintering sound stopped, and the father
of the Curlytops quickly leaped from the automobile to look behind and
see what the trouble was.

“What is it?” asked Mrs. Martin.

“Anything broken?” Ted wanted to know.

“We seem to have broken off a small tree,” replied Mr. Martin. “But the
auto isn’t damaged. We are chained fast to a tree.”

“Chained fast to a tree!” cried Janet. “How can that be?”

“With one of the tire chains,” went on Mr. Martin. “One end of a tire
chain is fast around a tree and the other end of the chain is tangled
around one of the car springs. No wonder I couldn’t move!”

“How did it happen?” asked Mrs. Martin.

“It couldn’t have happened by accident,” replied her husband. “That
chain never got there by itself. I remember using the chains the other
day, and, instead of putting them with the tools under the seat, I left
them in the front of the car. Some one must have taken a chain and made
us fast.”

As Mr. Martin said this he looked sharply at Trouble, who had been
sitting between him and his wife in the front seat.

“Did you do that Trouble?” asked his mother, shaking a finger at him.

“I guess maybe I did,” admitted small William.

“Don’t you _know_ that you did it?” asked his father sternly.

“Yes, I did it,” confessed Trouble.

“What for?” asked Janet.

“You might have caused an accident,” added Ted.

“I--er--now--I now--jest did it so our auto wouldn’t run away,”
explained Trouble.

“Oh, dear!” sighed Mrs. Martin. “What will you do next, Trouble?”

“I don’t know,” he said, and he probably meant it. For not even small
William himself knew what next would pop into his mind.

“Well, it’s lucky no great harm was done,” said Mr. Martin. “If I had
started off too suddenly I might have broken a tire chain. Then when we
needed it to use on a wet and slippery pavement, William, we wouldn’t
have had it. I might skid and break a wheel.”

“Yes, ma’am--I mean yes, sir, I--I’m sorry,” said Trouble.

By asking Trouble questions they learned how it had happened. When
they got out to “stretch their legs,” as Mr. Martin called it, William
alighted with the others. Then, when no one saw him, he took one of the
tire chains from the front of the car. He tangled one end of the chain
around the rear spring, and the other end of the chain he wound around
the small tree.

Consequently, when Mr. Martin started his machine he pulled over and
broke off the small tree, this causing the cracking, splintering sound.

“Well, it might have been a lot worse,” said Mr. Martin, as he loosed
the tire chain and put it, with the second one, in the tool box under
the seat.

“Better look to make sure there’s nothing else loose that William can
make trouble with,” suggested Mrs. Martin, with a smile.

“If William makes any more trouble I’ll send him back home to stay with
Skyrocket,” declared Mr. Martin, for the Curlytops’ dog had not been
brought along on this trip, it being thought too much bother.

“I’ll be good,” promised the little fellow.

The automobile was being driven along the pleasant country roads toward
Mount Major and the lumber camp where Mr. Martin was going to start the
store for the lumber company that would get out the trees.

“Are they going to float the logs down the river?” asked Ted.

“Some of the logs will be floated that way,” his father said. “Others
will be sawed into boards right there in the woods.”

“How can they saw them?” asked Janet.

“The men have set up a regular sawmill there in the forest,” her father
answered. “And, before I forget it, I want to warn you children--all of
you--to keep away from the saw.”

“Yes, it is very dangerous!” added Mrs. Martin.

“We’ll keep away,” promised Ted.

“And see that William keeps away, too,” cautioned Mr. Martin.

It was well along in the afternoon when Mrs. Martin noticed that her
husband was speeding the automobile each chance he got on good roads,
and she also saw him often looking at the clock on the board in front
of him.

“What’s the matter?” she asked. “Are we late?”

“We aren’t quite as far along on our trip as I’d like to be,” he
answered. “There were more hills than I counted on. But I think we’ll
get there before dark.”

“I hope so,” said his wife. “It won’t be very pleasant settling in a
strange bungalow after dark.”

“I’ll hurry as much as is safe,” said Mr. Martin. He put on more speed,
but as they were coming down a narrow road that led across a small
white bridge there appeared, just ahead coming toward them around a
turn in the highway, a big load of hay.

“You’ll never pass that!” said Ted.

“Call to him to stop before he gets on the bridge,” said Janet.

“It would be wise to do that,” added Mrs. Martin. “If he doesn’t stop,
or you don’t, Dick, you’ll meet on the bridge, and there isn’t room to
pass anything as large as a load of hay.”

“I guess you’re right,” admitted her husband. “I can’t very well stop
on this hill with the load I have. I say, you there!” he called to the
driver of the hay wagon. “Pull up, will you? Wait until I pass you,
please! Don’t go on the bridge!”

Whether the rattle of the hay wagon drowned Mr. Martin’s words, or
whether the farmer was deaf was not known, but the load of dried grass
kept on, and, in another moment, it and the automobile were close to
the bridge.

“Oh, look out!” screamed Mrs. Martin.

“Whoa there!” yelled the farmer, seeing the danger. “What you trying to
do?” he asked, rather angrily.

Mr. Martin did not try to answer then. He was putting on both foot and
hand brakes with all his power. And luckily he stopped right in front
of the horses of the hay wagon. There never would have been room
for the automobile to have passed the hay wagon on the bridge. Two
automobiles, or an ordinary wagon and an automobile could have passed
easily. But the hay stuck out so much on either side that it took up
most of the roadway.

“Didn’t you hear me call to you, asking you to keep off the bridge
until I had crossed it?” asked Mr. Martin.

“Wa’al, no, I didn’t,” answered the farmer, and he smiled a little.
Evidently he was not going to get angry after all.

“I did call to you,” said Mr. Martin. “I would have stopped my car
before reaching the bridge, but I couldn’t, coming downhill as I was.”

“No, I calculate ’twould be pretty middlin’ hard,” admitted the farmer.
“I’m sorry I didn’t hear you. Now if you’ll wait a minute I’ll try to
back up.”

“No, you’d better let me do that,” suggested Mr. Martin. “I can back
off easier than you can. I’ll get out and take a look at things.”

The bridge was rather narrow, and the road on either side leading to it
was also narrow. It was not an easy matter for either the hay wagon or
the automobile to back up. But one or the other must do it, for they
could not pass.

“I think I can back up all right,” said Mr. Martin, after looking the
ground over carefully.

“All right, neighbor. Sorry to put you to all this trouble,” said the
good-natured farmer.

“That’s all right. We must give and take in this world if we are going
to get along,” said Mr. Martin pleasantly.

“Wait a minute!” exclaimed Mrs. Martin, as her husband was about to get
back in the machine and back it up. “I want to get out before you try
anything like that, Dick,” she added. “And the children had better get
out also.”

“Maybe it would be better,” her husband agreed. “I’ll feel freer then
to switch around.”

“Are you going to stay in, Lucy?” asked Janet.

“Good lan’ ob massy no, indeedy!” cried the black cook, and out she
scrambled.

The Curlytops and the others stood in the road while Mr. Martin
carefully backed his automobile off the bridge. Ted stood at the rear
to tell his father which way to turn--whether to the right or the
left--to avoid going off the road into the ditches which were on either
side. The farmer had to remain on his hay wagon to keep his horses
quiet, for they seemed a bit skittish at the sound of the throbbing
automobile.

At last Mr. Martin had backed far enough off the bridge for the hay
wagon to keep on across it and pull out to one side so the automobile
could go ahead.

This was done after a while and the road cleared.

“You folks comin’ to live around here?” asked the farmer, as the
Curlytops and others began to enter the automobile again.

“No, we’re just going to stay for a while at Mount Major,” answered Mr.
Martin. “I’m going to open a store for the lumbermen who are soon to
arrive.”

“Oh, yes, I heard somethin’ ’bout there going to be lumberin’ off at
Mount Major,” the farmer said. “Wa’al, mebby I’ll see you again. I live
not far from Mount Major. Armstrong is my name--Silas Armstrong.”

“I’m glad to meet you, Mr. Armstrong,” greeted Mr. Martin, as he told
his own name. “And I hope we see you again.”

“Thanks,” drawled Mr. Armstrong, as he drove off.

Once more the Curlytops were in the car. They crossed the bridge and
were perhaps half a mile down the road when Mrs. Martin suddenly
turned, looked back to where Ted and Janet were sitting with Lucy, and
then Mrs. Martin cried:

“Where’s William?”

Quickly Mr. Martin looked to where Trouble had been sitting on the
other side of Mrs. Martin in the front seat. William was not there.

“Is he back there with you, Janet?” asked his mother.

“No, he isn’t here.”

“Then he’s fallen out,” cried the frantic mother. “Dick, stop the car!
William has fallen out!”




CHAPTER VII

AT THE FARMHOUSE


Mr. Martin acted as quickly in bringing the automobile to a stop this
time as he had done when Trouble had fastened it to a tree by the tire
chains. Once the car was stopped the father of the Curlytops leaped out
and looked back over the road.

“I don’t see him anywhere,” he said. “Are you sure he isn’t in there?”

“No, he isn’t here with us,” answered Janet.

“Unless he’s slipped in among the packages,” added Ted. “I’ll look.”

“Ef de poor chile am down in amongst de t’ings he’s suah to be
smashed!” declared Lucy.

But Trouble was not there. Nor was he in front. Mr. Martin had been
sure of this before he leaped from the car.

“Oh, where can he be?” cried Mrs. Martin.

“He was with us just before we met the hay wagon,” said Mr. Martin.
“Then we all got out to look and see how much room there was, and you
all stayed out while I backed up.”

“Did Trouble get back in with you?” asked the Curlytops’ mother.

“No, he didn’t,” Janet answered.

“We thought he was in front with you,” said Teddy.

“And we thought he was in the rear with you,” added Mrs. Martin. “It
wasn’t until I looked back to see if he might be getting sleepy that I
missed him. Oh, where is he?”

“We’ll find him!” declared Mr. Martin. “He couldn’t have fallen out, or
we would have heard him yell.”

“Then how did he get out?” asked Mrs. Martin anxiously.

“I think he didn’t get in,” her husband replied. “I mean, when all of
you got back in after the hay wagon passed Trouble stayed out and I
started off without him.”

“But where can he be?” inquired Janet.

“Oh, he wandered off along the road to pick flowers as he often does,”
said Ted.

The automobile was turned around and started back over the road they
had come. Eager eyes looked everywhere for a sight of Trouble, but he
was not seen. They looked carefully near the bridge, then went on a
little farther. As Mr. Martin steered around a bend in the road, he saw
the hay wagon again, just ahead of them.

“I have an idea!” he suddenly cried, as he put on speed. As he neared
the big load of fodder, in front of which, hidden from sight, sat the
driver. Mr. Martin called:

“I say there! Wait a minute! Have you seen a lost boy?”

He made his voice heard above the rattle of the hay wagon. From in
front came a call:

“Whoa!”

The horses came to a stop.

“What’s that?” asked Mr. Armstrong, looking around the front edge of
the hay.

“My little son William is missing,” said Mr. Martin. “Did you see
anything of him along the road?”

Anxiously Mrs. Martin waited for the answer.

“No, I didn’t see him!” said Mr. Armstrong.

Mrs. Martin seemed on the edge of tears when Ted gave a sudden shout.

“Maybe he’s up on the load of hay where we can’t see him!” he exclaimed.

“How could he get there?” asked Jan.

“And wouldn’t he call to us?” asked Mrs. Martin doubtingly.

“He could easily climb up,” explained Ted. “He could get on the back of
the wagon, and there’s a thing like a ladder to climb.”

This was true enough. To keep the hay from slipping off the end of
his wagon Mr. Armstrong had fastened there an upright, consisting of
two pieces of wood joined by cross pieces. It was like a short ladder
leading to the top of the load of hay.

“Trouble could easily climb that,” insisted Ted. “I’ve seen him climb
harder places than that.”

“So have I,” added Janet.

“But why doesn’t he answer us?” asked Mrs. Martin.

Then Mr. Martin solved the puzzle.

“If he’s up there maybe he’s asleep,” he said.

“I’ll soon find out!” cried Ted.

A moment later he was climbing up the little ladder at the back of the
load of hay. When he reached the top of the pile of fodder Ted cried:

“Here he is!”

Trouble was peacefully slumbering in a little nest he had wiggled
himself into on top of the sweet-smelling hay.

“He is like Little Boy Blue!” laughed Janet.

“Except that Boy Blue was under the haystack fast asleep, and Trouble
is on top of the hay,” said Mr. Martin.

“I’ll slide him down. Catch him!” cried Ted to his father.

They could hear Trouble sleepily protesting at having been awakened.
But he soon grew good-natured, and amid the laughter of the farmer,
Janet, her mother and Lucy, Ted and his father got the small boy down
off the load of hay.

“What did you ever go up there for?” asked his mother, as she picked
wisps of hay out of his hair.

“Oh, jest for--now--for fun,” slowly answered Trouble.

And that is how it had happened. He had strolled around when they were
all out of the car, waiting for Mr. Martin to back it and get it out of
the way of the hay. Then Trouble had seen the little ladder leading to
the top of the fodder. He had scrambled up on a wheel when no one was
watching and climbed to the summit.

“It was awful nice up there,” he said, “an’ I had a nice sleep, I did.”

“It’s a wonder you weren’t jiggled off!” exclaimed Janet.

“Oh, you should see the hole he was in!” laughed Ted. “He was like a
little squirrel in a nest.”

“I like to be a squirrel,” declared Trouble. “An’ if I was a squirrel
now I would eat a nut for I am hungry.”

“Bless your heart!” exclaimed his mother, with a laugh, “I suppose you
are hungry. Well, it’s some time until supper, but I guess I can find
you something. Did you thank Mr. Armstrong for the hay ride?” she asked
with a smile and nod at the farmer.

“Oh--er--now--thank you!” said Trouble politely.

“You’re welcome, young man,” chuckled the farmer. “The next time you
want to ride with me let me know and I’ll put up a lunch for you.”

There was more laughter and then good-byes were said. The load of hay
continued on down the road, and Mr. Martin, making sure that Trouble
was now in the car, turned the machine and started back over the road
toward Mount Major.

But so much time had been lost, first because of the chaining of the
car to the tree and then the hunt for Trouble, that it was now late
afternoon.

“I don’t see how we are going to make it,” said Mr. Martin to his wife,
as they drove along.

“You mean get to Mount Major before dark?” she asked.

“Yes. I don’t want to take you into the woods with the children after
dark--especially to a strange place.”

“Oh, I don’t mind much,” she said. “Of course it will be quite a
trouble, but we may get some fun out of it.”

“It will be lots of fun!” exclaimed Janet, who overheard what her
father and mother were saying.

“Like camping out,” added Ted.

“Camping out is all right when you have your camp set up,” returned Mr.
Martin, with a laugh. “But it isn’t much fun to make camp after dark
in a strange place with three children. So I think we had better stay
over for the night.”

“Where?” asked Ted. “Do you mean camp here in the woods?” and he
motioned to the forest that was then on either side of the road.

“Oh, no, we won’t stay here,” his father answered. “We’ll go on to the
next town and stay at the hotel.”

“We’re not really dressed to stop at a fashionable hotel,” objected
Mrs. Martin.

“I guess the hotels around here aren’t very fashionable,” laughed her
husband.

But, as it happened, they did not stay at a hotel. The automobile was
driven along until it came out of the wooded road and was speeding
along a highway that led past a pleasant farm, with its big white house
and green shutters and barns and outhouses clustered near it.

Just as they were passing the house Mr. Martin looked at the
motormeter, or thermometer, on the radiator of the car, and exclaimed:

“Something’s wrong!”

“It is overheating,” said Mrs. Martin. “Are you out of water?” For
sometimes when there is not enough water in the radiator of an
automobile, what little there is boils and turns to steam, and this
heat makes the red column of alcohol on the tube go nearly to the top.
It was almost there now.

“I have plenty of water and oil,” said Mr. Martin. “It must be
something else.”

He stopped the car and got out to raise the hood. Ted also got out, for
he knew a little about cars and once or twice he had seen things that
needed fixing almost as soon as had his father.

But this time it was Mr. Martin who saw what was wrong.

“The fan belt is broken,” he said. “The fan stopped whirling and that
let the water get very hot.”

“Have you a new belt?” asked Ted.

“Yes, but it will take some little time to put it on.”

“I’m hungry! I want a good supper!” suddenly cried Trouble.

“Dear me!” exclaimed his mother. “I’m afraid we haven’t very much left
to eat. I counted on being in the bungalow for supper.”

Mr. Martin appeared to think for a moment. He looked toward the white
farmhouse and seemed to make up his mind.

“Wait here,” he said to his family. “As long as we are going to put up
over night I’ll see if they won’t take us in here. It will take quite
a while for me to put on the fan belt, as I’m not used to doing it. By
that time it would be quite late, and it is several miles to the next
town where there is a hotel.”

“It would be lovely to stay here,” said Mrs. Martin. “But of course we
can’t expect strangers to put themselves out for us.”

“It will do no harm to ask, at any rate,” said Mr. Martin.

He walked up to the side door of the farmhouse and soon those waiting
in the automobile saw him talking to a pleasant-faced woman. Matters
seemed to be all right, for Mr. Martin called:

“Come on! This lady has very kindly consented to let us stay here over
night.”

“Oh, that is good of you!” exclaimed Mrs. Martin, as she advanced with
Ted, Janet and Trouble, while Lucy began getting out the bags.

“No trouble at all,” was the answer of the farmer’s wife. “We have
plenty of room, and often accommodate auto parties. My husband will
soon be here. He is Jed Pitney.”

Mrs. Pitney led the Curlytops and the others, except Mr. Martin and
Lucy, into the sitting room. Mr. Martin was going to help Lucy bring in
the baggage.

As he was doing this Mr. Pitney came in from the barn, where he had
gone to oversee the milking of the cows by his hired man. The situation
was explained to the farmer by Mr. Martin. Then Mr. Pitney, looking
sharply at the automobile, said:

“You must have been carting hay.” He pointed to some wisps of the dried
fodder dangling from the rods that supported the top.

“Oh, that!” laughed Mr. Martin. “No, we weren’t exactly carting hay,
but we passed a load at a tight squeeze, and then my youngest boy
climbed up on the hay wagon and went to sleep. It was Mr. Armstrong’s
hay.”

“Silas Armstrong?” asked Mr. Pitney.

“That was his name, yes. He said he lived around here.”

“I should say he did! Why, he’s a neighbor of mine!” exclaimed Mr.
Pitney. “Shake hands, Mr. Martin. I feel as if I knew you since you’ve
met my neighbor Si Armstrong on the road. Come right in and make
yourself at home. Here, give me one of the satchels.”

He helped bring in the baggage, and then, in his loud, jolly voice, he
told his wife that Mr. Martin had met Silas Armstrong with a load of
hay. This seemed to make them better acquainted.

Mrs. Martin was given a room for herself in which Janet and Trouble
could sleep, and Ted and his father had another room.

“When’s supper going to be ready?” asked Trouble, in a loud voice after
the sleeping arrangements had been made.

“Hush, dear!” whispered his mother.

“But I’m hungry! I want my supper!” he insisted.

“And you shall have it, my dear!” laughed Mrs. Pitney. “I know what
little boys want,” she went on. “Bread and jam.”

“Oh, goodie!” cried Trouble, with shining eyes as he clapped his chubby
hands.

It was a very good meal that was soon set before the Curlytops and the
others of the party. Lucy insisted on being allowed to help wait on the
table, and this she was permitted to do, much to her delight.

The meal and the rest afterward in comfortable chairs freshened the
travelers after the day’s trip. And after the car had been put in Mr.
Pitney’s garage--for the farmer had an automobile of his own--they all
sat out on the porch enjoying the pleasant evening.

After a while Mrs. Pitney, noticing that the children were rather
restless, said:

“Wouldn’t you like to go up in the attic and play?”

“Oh, that would be lovely!” cried Janet.

“Are there any old Indian guns there?” asked Ted.

“None that shoot,” laughed Mrs. Pitney. “There are a lot of
old-fashioned things there, though, that you may play with,” she added.
“I’ll light a lamp and hang it in a safe place where they can’t knock
it over, for it will be dark before long, and it’s never very light
in the attic, at best,” she told Mrs. Martin. “Let them play in the
attic.”




CHAPTER VIII

FUN IN THE ATTIC


With whoops of delight that made the old farmhouse ring, the Curlytops
and Trouble hurried after Mrs. Pitney. She smiled and laughed with them.

“I’m afraid they’ll make you a lot of work,” said Mrs. Martin.

“Oh, I love children,” was the answer. “I have raised a family of them
myself. They won’t do any harm. There’s nothing in the attic that can
be damaged. And if the older ones will look after their little brother,
there will be no trouble.”

“That’s his name,” said Janet, with a laugh.

“Whose name?” asked Mrs. Pitney.

“His,” and Janet pointed to William. “He’ll get into trouble if there’s
any way at all.”

“He chained the auto fast and went to sleep on the hay wagon,” added
Ted, as they climbed the attic stairs.

“Maybe--now--maybe I did,” admitted Trouble, who always got his words
a little mixed when he was excited. “But now I didn’t--I--er--now--I
didn’t lost ma’s diamond locket like you did, Jan!” he cried.

“Oh, dear!” sighed Janet, for that was an unhappy memory.

“Did your mother lose something on this trip?” asked Mrs. Pitney.

“Not on this trip,” explained Ted. “It was before we started. My sister
and I were playing house, and Janet borrowed mother’s small diamond
locket to dress up with. But there was an auto accident out in front
and we ran to see that, and afterward we couldn’t find the locket.”

“It must have dropped down a crack. But we looked everywhere,” said
Janet. “Oh, I feel so bad about it.”

“Never mind,” consoled Mrs. Pitney. “Maybe it will be found some day.”

But Janet did not believe it would.

“And Jim is lost, too,” added Trouble.

“Who is Jim? Your dog?” asked the farmer’s wife.

“No. He is a tame crow that does tricks, and he’s worth more than a
hundred dollars,” explained Ted. “He can stand on one leg and make a
pop like a cork coming from a bottle.”

“It’s too bad you lost a crow like that,” said Mrs. Pitney, as she
arranged the lamp in a safe place in the attic, where it would not be
knocked over if the children raced about as they were sure to do. “One
of our neighbors had a tame crow once,” she went on. “It could say a
few words, but I never heard it pull corks.”

“Jim wasn’t our crow,” Janet hastened to explain. “He belongs to Mr.
Jenk, the man who lives next door. But he’ll give us ten dollars if we
find Jim.”

“Then I hope you’ll find him soon,” said Mrs. Pitney. “Now you may play
with anything you find up here,” she went on, “but I am going to ask
you to put everything back just where you found it.”

“Oh, we’ll do that,” promised Ted.

“And we’ll put back anything that Trouble leaves out, for sometimes he
forgets,” said Janet.

“No, I put back t’ings myself!” insisted Trouble.

“All right,” laughed Ted. “See that you do.”

As Mrs. Pitney had said, there were many old-fashioned things in the
attic for the children to have fun with. There were moulds for making
candles, which were burned before we had kerosene lamps or electric
lights. These candle moulds were a number of tin tubes fastened to a
frame, and Mrs. Pitney remained up in the attic long enough to tell the
children how candles used to be made.

“My grandmother used to make them,” she said. “She would set this
mould, which made a dozen candles at once, down in a tub of water to
keep it cool. Then she would pour the melted tallow into each tin tube
where, before that, some cotton wicks had been hung. The melted tallow
flowed around the wick, which was hung just in the centre, by a little
stick across the top of the mould. Then when the tallow was cold the
candles could be lifted out.”

“Did they make wax candles the same way?” asked Janet.

“Yes, only they used melted beeswax instead of tallow,” said Mrs.
Pitney. “Of course the wax candles were a little nicer than those made
of tallow, and they didn’t smell up the room so. But I don’t know that
the wax ones gave any better light.”

“It must have been fun to use candles,” said Janet.

“Not as much fun as it sounds,” answered the farmer’s wife. “They
didn’t give half as good light as a kerosene lamp.”

“We have lickerish lights at our house,” said Trouble.

“Lickerish lights?” exclaimed Mrs. Pitney.

“He means electric lights,” explained Janet. “Oh, what’s that big wheel
over there?” she asked, pointing to one in a corner of the attic.

“That’s a spinning wheel,” was the reply. “In the olden days my
grandmother spun the woolen yarn that was woven into cloth or knit into
socks.”

“May we play with it?” asked Ted.

“Yes. It isn’t all there,” said Mrs. Pitney. “Only the big wheel is
left, but you can turn it and have fun, I suppose.”

“We’ll play engine,” decided Ted, as he helped Mrs. Pitney move the
old-fashioned spinning wheel out into the middle of the attic.

Then Janet saw a smaller wheel somewhat like the larger.

“Was that for little girls to spin yarn on when their mothers spun on
the big wheel?” she asked.

“No,” was the answer. “The little wheel is for spinning flax, which is
different from wool. Flax is a plant that grows. It has blue flowers.
In the olden days our grandmothers took the stalks of the flax plant,
wet them, pounded them, and pulled the fine fibers into threads. These
very fine threads were then spun together by the spindle on the small
flax wheel, and from the threads linen cloth was woven at the mill.”

“If we could take the big spinning wheel and the flax wheel I could put
them together and have a dandy engine!” said Ted, with sparkling eyes.

“You may take them,” said Mrs. Pitney.

With Janet’s help Ted set the two old-fashioned spinning wheels
together. The larger one had a rim around it over an inch wide, and the
smaller, or flax wheel, had two grooves around its rim.

“They used to put two belts of string on the small wheel,” said Mrs.
Pitney, “and then the string belts ran to two different parts of the
spindle,” and she showed them about it. In this way one spindle went
faster than the other, for they were of different sizes.

“My daddy--he has a fan belt on his auto--but it busted!” broke out
Trouble.

“Yes, I heard about that,” laughed Mrs. Pitney. “Well, now you may play
with the spinning wheels,” she told Teddy.

He found some string for a belt and ran it from the large wheel to the
smaller. Then when Ted turned the large wheel with his hand the flax
wheel also went around, one on one side of the attic and one on the
other side.

“We’ll play steamboat,” decided Ted. “I’ll be the engineer.”

“I’ll be the captain!” cried Janet.

“What I goin’ to be?” Trouble wanted to know.

“You can be a passenger,” said Ted. “You can ride.”

“Don’t want to wide! I wants to be a cap’n!” protested Trouble.

“Oh, it’s lots of fun to be a passenger,” soothed Janet. “Passengers
can eat whenever they want to, but the captain and engineer have to
wait until the whistle blows.”

“You got suffin for me to eat?” asked Trouble.

“I’ll get you cookies,” offered Janet, for she felt sure Mrs. Pitney
would give her some.

“Get some for us, too,” suggested Ted to his sister, as he tried the
string belt of his “engine” and found that it revolved the wheels in
fine fashion.

“I’ll get cookies for all of us,” offered Janet.

“No! No!” cried Trouble. “Only passjars eat cookies.”

“Well, we won’t eat until the whistle blows,” agreed Ted. But he made
up his mind that he would himself blow a make-believe whistle as soon
as Janet came back with the cookies.

The little Curlytop girl had no trouble in getting Mrs. Pitney to give
her some cookies, and with these Janet went back to the attic. Ted had
placed two chairs in the middle of the attic floor between the two
old-fashioned spinning wheels. One of the chairs was a “cabin” for
Passenger Trouble. The other was the pilot house where Janet stood to
steer the boat.

“All aboard!” cried Engineer Teddy, as he stood with one hand on the
spokes of the big wheel, ready to turn it. Ted soon found that if he
turned the big wheel, the small flax wheel would spin much faster than
the one he turned. This was because of the difference in size. If Ted
had turned the flax wheel by hand the larger wheel would have moved
more slowly.

“All aboard!” cried Teddy again.

“You mustn’t say that,” objected Janet. “That’s for the captain to say.”

“All right--say it,” agreed Teddy.

“All a-board!” yelled Janet.

“You don’t say it as good as I do, but I guess it will be good enough,”
said Ted. “Did you hear it, Trouble?” he asked.

“Yep. I heard her,” was the answer.

“Then why don’t you get on board--in your cabin?” Ted wanted to know.

“Got to have cookie first so I can eat,” said William. “Passjars eats
all time!” And not until Janet gave him a cookie would he get on the
make-believe steamboat.

Teddy made noises like steam puffing out. He turned slowly at first
the big wheel, and the one on the flax spinner began to go around and
around. Faster and faster it went, while Janet turned an old peck
measure she had found for the steering wheel.

Trouble did not pay much attention to anything except eating his
cookie. He sat in the chair, which was his “cabin,” picking up even the
crumbs that fell. He seemed to be very hungry.

“Toot! Toot!” suddenly called Ted.

“Dis for me to get off?” asked William.

“No, that’s the whistle for me and Janet to eat our cookies,” Teddy
answered. “Don’t you s’pose we get hungry same as you?”

“All right,” calmly agreed Trouble. “I eat again, too,” and he pulled a
second cookie from his pocket. “I eat when whistle blows,” he announced.

“Don’t bother him--let him eat when he wants to,” whispered Janet to
Ted.

After a while Trouble became tired of sitting in a chair, even if he
could eat cookies whenever he wished, and he decided he did not want
to play steamboat any more. Teddy wouldn’t let him spin either of the
wheels for fear he might break them.

But the Curlytops played together, and finally Janet got Ted to let her
be “engineer.”

“For,” she said, “if women can vote, and I’m going to when I grow up,
they can be engineers on a steamboat.”

“Not real they can’t!” declared Ted.

“Well, they can make believe, so there!”

“Maybe make believe,” Ted conceded, and he let Janet take his place
while he took hers.

For a time they forgot about Trouble, so interested were they in
watching the spinning wheels revolve, one turning the other. Then, all
at once, through the attic resounded a jingle of bells.

“Santa Claus! Santa Claus!” cried a voice they knew to be that of
Trouble. “I found Santa Claus bells!”

He came staggering out from a dark corner of the attic with a leather
strap of sleigh bells dragging after him.

“Where did you get them?” asked Janet.

“Back under the roof,” answered Trouble. “Aren’t they Santa Claus
bells?”

“They sound like them, anyhow,” admitted Ted, for the bells gave a
merry jingle.

But afterward Mrs. Pitney said the bells were those her husband’s
father used when he went sleighriding in the winter. The bells were
strapped around the horse and jingled when he trotted over the white
snow, pulling the cutter after him.

It was all right for Trouble to believe they were the bells of Santa
Claus, and really they sounded just like Christmas chimes.

Trouble played with the bells awhile, and then wandered off to look for
something else. Janet, too, tired of the spinning wheels, though Ted
did not, and Janet wandered into another corner of the attic.

It was not until Ted thought of something new to play with the big and
little wheels that he looked for his sister.

“Janet! Janet!” he called. “Where are you?” The attic was cut up by
many gables and all of it could not be seen from any one point. “Where
are you, Jan?” cried Ted.

A banging sound answered him and then the voice of his sister cried:

“Oh, I’m locked in! I’m locked in! Help me out, Ted!”




CHAPTER IX

DOWN THE HILL


Teddy, at first, did not know whether his sister Janet was playing a
joke on him or not. The Curlytops often did play jokes, for they were
just like you children. And more than once Janet had fooled Ted in this
way. So, thinking for a moment that it was a joke, Ted answered and
said:

“Oh, come on, Jan! Quit your fooling! I know a new game to play with
the spinning wheels.”

“I play wif you!” offered Trouble, coming from a dark corner of the
attic, where he had become covered with cobwebs.

And then Jan broke out again in a wailing cry:

“Teddy! Teddy! I can’t get out! I’m locked in!”

This time Ted knew it was no joke. Jan’s voice showed that she was
frightened and was crying.

The Curlytop boy looked all around the attic. It had in it no closet
where Janet might have gone in and closed the door after her, thus
locking herself in. And if there was no closet where could she be? That
is what Ted wanted to know.

Again came that wailing cry from Janet.

“Teddy! Teddy! Get me out!”

The Curlytop boy was very much puzzled and not a little frightened.
Only a little while before Janet had been close beside him playing with
the spinning wheels. Then, it seemed but a minute, Ted turned his back
to make up some new game, and Janet had disappeared. Now she was locked
in. But where?

“Janet! Janet! Where is you?” called Trouble.

That is what Ted should have asked. For right away came the answer.

“I’m in this big trunk, Teddy. The lid fell down and I can’t push it up
and I can’t get out.”

“Oh! In a trunk!” yelled Ted. Now he understood. And this was why
Janet’s voice sounded so muffled and far away. It came from inside a
big trunk, of which there were three or four in the attic. It was as if
she had been speaking from down in the cellar.

Teddy did not stop to ask how Janet had gotten inside the trunk. There
was time enough for that after he had gotten her out--if he could.
He sprang away from the spinning wheels and hurried over to the big
old-fashioned trunks.

“Are you in this one, Jan?” he asked, as he started to raise the lid of
one.

“No, I’m in here,” came the answer.

Teddy sprang to the next trunk. Just as he was tugging on the lid,
which seemed tightly fastened, Mrs. Martin came up the stairs.

Mrs. Martin saw what Teddy was about to do and she called to him:

“Teddy! Teddy! Don’t open that trunk. Mrs. Pitney won’t like it if you
open her trunks. She was kind enough to let you play in the attic, but
you mustn’t open trunks!”

“But I _got_ to, Mother!” exclaimed Teddy.

“Why do you have to?”

“’Cause Janet’s inside!”

“Janet inside that trunk?” cried Mrs. Martin. “What sort of game is
that you are playing? You shouldn’t have shut Janet up in a trunk.”

“I didn’t, Mother!” Teddy answered. “She got in herself and----”

But this delay was too much for Janet. She could hear the talk between
her mother and Teddy. She could also hear Trouble shuffling around the
attic floor. And Janet called:

“Oh, let me out! Let me out! I’m smothering!”

Mrs. Martin did not stop to ask any more questions. She fairly leaped
across the floor and, catching hold of the trunk cover, tried to lift
it up. But it would not come.

“It’s caught!” explained Teddy. “That’s why Jan couldn’t get it up.”

For a fearful moment or two Mrs. Martin feared that the trunk had
locked with a spring catch. And she was alarmed lest there be no key
to fit it, or that the key could not be found. In that case they would
have to chop the trunk open to get Janet out.

But when Mrs. Martin looked at the lock of the trunk she saw that it
was merely caught, and not fastened with a spring catch. In an instant
she pulled the piece of brass forward and then, with Ted’s help, she
raised the lid of the trunk.

There was Janet, all crumpled up, lying on a pile of old-fashioned
dresses. The little Curlytop girl’s face was very red, and it was dirty
where she had cried and then rubbed her hands over her cheeks, her
hands being soiled with dust from the old spinning wheels.

“Oh, Janet! Why did you hide in the trunk?” asked Mrs. Martin, helping
her out. “You might have smothered in there!”

“I--I ’most did,” sobbed Janet.

“Did you put her in there, Teddy?” asked his mother.

“Oh, no,” he answered.

“I got in myself,” Janet hastened to say. “I opened the trunk to look
at some of the dresses, for Mrs. Pitney said we might. And I leaned
over to see those on the bottom, and I fell in. I slipped all the way
in and then the lid fell down and I couldn’t get it up.”

“That was too bad,” said Mrs. Martin kindly. “It’s lucky some one was
up here with you or you might have been in the trunk a long time before
you were let out. Old trunks like this sometimes fasten with a spring
catch that is hard to open.”

“I’ll close this so Trouble won’t get in,” said Ted as he lowered the
lid.

“I no hide in any trunks,” the little fellow announced. “I got better
place as that. Come see,” he added, tugging at his mother’s hand to
lead her into the corner where he had been rummaging.

“No, I don’t believe I want to go there. I’d get covered with cobwebs
like you!” laughed Mrs. Martin. “But come, children. It’s time you were
in bed. Put things back where you found them and we’ll go downstairs.”

The spinning wheels were set back against the beams under the sloping
roof of the old-fashioned attic. Trouble wanted to take the string of
sleigh bells down to bed with him, but this could not be allowed. Janet
gave one last look at the trunk which had been her prison for a short
time and went with her mother and Ted.

“Did you have fun?” asked Mrs. Pitney, as they entered the sitting room.

“Yes, they had fun and a sort of adventure,” answered Mrs. Martin, as
she told about the trunk.

“Dear me! That might have been a sad accident,” said the farmer’s wife.
“I never thought of your tumbling into any of those old trunks or I
would have told you children not to open them. Not that you could do
any harm,” she added, “for the dresses are so old-fashioned that no one
would think of wearing them, unless at some Hallowe’en party. But I’m
glad you got safely out, Janet.”

“So’m I,” agreed the little girl.

Soon after this the Curlytops were in bed. There was no need of any
specially early start in the morning, Mr. Martin said, as they were not
many miles from Mount Major, where they were to stay in the woods for
several weeks.

“We can easily get to the camp bungalow by noon, if we start from here
at nine o’clock,” said Mr. Martin to his wife that night. “We will let
the children sleep as long as they wish.”

The night passed quietly, except that Trouble walked in his sleep, an
occasional happening, and when his mother asked him what he wanted he
answered:

“I get sleigh bells for Santa Claus.”

He was thinking of his play up in the attic.

After a good breakfast the automobile was brought around to the door
and once more the Curlytops prepared to travel on. Many thanks were
expressed to Mr. and Mrs. Pitney for their kindness in keeping the
family over night.

“And when you get settled in your wood camp drive over and see us some
time,” invited the farmer’s wife.

“I will,” promised Mrs. Martin. “And you must come and see us.”

“We will if I ever get any time away from the farm,” laughed Mr. Pitney.

Off started the automobile with the Curlytops and the others. In a
few hours they would be in the woods and then, thought Ted, Janet and
Trouble, the real fun would begin. For they had been counting on having
many good times in camp.

The roads, now, were not as good as they had been at first, becoming
rather rough after leaving the Pitney farm. But Mr. Martin was a good
driver and sent the car along at a good pace. He had been over the road
some time before, and thought he knew the way. But once, coming to a
place where two roads forked, he stopped as if puzzled.

“What’s the matter?” asked his wife. “Don’t you know which way to go?”

“Not exactly,” he answered.

“Why don’t you look at the road book?” suggested Ted.

“Here it is,” offered Jan, for this auto guide was always carried in
the car, and now she took it from one of the side pockets.

Mr. Martin turned the pages and looked at the maps, but he shook his
head.

“This doesn’t help any,” he remarked. “This road doesn’t seem to be
down on the map.”

“Do you think we came the wrong way?” Mrs. Martin wanted to know.

“Are we lost?” asked Janet.

“Oh, no,” her father said, with a laugh. “But I want to take the
shortest road to our place. We have been delayed enough. I was to meet
some of the lumbermen there at noon, and if I’m not on hand they may go
away and not come back until to-morrow. If there was only a sign-board
or some one to ask.”

But there was no sign and not a house was in sight. The nearest
dwelling was about a mile back. Of course Mr. Martin could have turned
and gone back there to ask which road to take, but he did not want to
do this if he could avoid it.

“I wish some one would come along,” he remarked.

And then, as if in answer to his wish, the sound of wheels and of a
horse trotting, was heard down one of the roads.

“Some one is coming,” announced Janet.

A moment later a farmer riding in a one-horse wagon came driving along.

“Which way to Mount Major, if you please?” asked Mr. Martin.

“Who-a-ah!” drawled the farmer slowly, as he pulled his horse to a
stop. “Mount Major?” he went on. “Wa’al, you kin take either road,” he
said.

“Which one is the best?” Mr. Martin wanted to know.

The farmer seemed to be considering this for a moment.

“Both of ’em’s prutty wuss!” he replied. “They’s both bad enough,
though not so much now’s wet weather.”

“Well, if both roads are bad,” said Mr. Martin, with a smile at the
farmer’s odd talk and ways, “which road is the shorter?”

This appeared to be another puzzle. He scratched his head and finally
answered:

“Wa’al, ef anythin’ the one I jest come over’s a leetle mite shorter,
an’ ’tain’t so much at that.”

“Even a little difference will save us some time,” said Mr. Martin.
“I’m much obliged to you.”

“Don’t mention it! G’lang!” the farmer called to his horse, and he
pulled to one side to get around the automobile which had stopped in
the fork of the road.

“We’ll take the right hand road,” said Mr. Martin.

“I hope, later on, it won’t turn out that we should have taken the
left,” said Mrs. Martin.

“Why, do you think something might happen?” asked Janet.

“Maybe we’ll get lost and have to stay in the woods all night!”
remarked Teddy. And he said it as though he would rather like such a
thing to happen.

“Oh, no, I don’t believe we’ll have any trouble,” said Mr. Martin. “I
could have gone around by Parkersburg, and we would have had good roads
all the way. But it was thirty miles farther and I thought we would
save time this way. Well, we’ll see what happens.”

At first the road the farmer had told them to take was fairly good,
though there were stretches of sand where they could not go fast. Then
they struck a patch of woods through which the road wound in and out
like some great snake. The trees met in arches overhead.

“This is a very narrow road,” remarked Mr. Martin, when they had
traveled it for a mile or so. “I hope we don’t meet any other autos or
wagons. We’d have hard work to pass them.”

But, so far, they had met and passed no other vehicles. Soon, however,
the road, instead of being on the level, began to slope downhill, and
it was rather a steep hill.

“Guess I’d better put on brakes here,” said Mr. Martin.

He began to do this, but he had no sooner started down the hill than he
found the brakes were not holding well. The automobile rolled along too
fast.

“Still there may be no danger if we don’t meet another car or wagon,”
thought Mr. Martin.

However, danger was ahead. A moment later Janet cried and pointed to a
wagon going down the hill in front of them. It was a wagon piled to the
top with bean poles, and as the road was narrow and the wagon was wide
there was hardly room for Mr. Martin to pass. And yet, tug as he did at
the brakes, he could not stop the car.

“Pull over! Pull to one side and I’ll go past you!” he called to the
driver of the wagon.

“I can’t!” was the answer. “There isn’t room. Hold your auto back until
I can get to a wider place!”

Again Mr. Martin pulled at the brake, but still the car rolled on.

“Oh, we’re going to bunk!” murmured Janet.

“Good land ob massy!” cried Lucy, as she clutched Trouble to her. “Oh,
mah gracious goodness!”




CHAPTER X

IN THE WOODS


Mr. Martin heard the murmurs of those in the automobile with him, and
he knew that they might become much frightened.

Truly there was danger of a collision with the load of poles, as there
was not room to pass on the narrow road. And, so far, he had not been
able to stop his car. But it was going slowly, for, though the brakes
did not hold it completely, they held it somewhat.

“If we bump we won’t bump very hard,” said Ted to his sister.

Meanwhile the man driving the load of poles which he had cut in the
woods, was doing his best to find some place along the narrow road
where he could pull to one side. The Curlytops were near enough now to
see that one of the rear wheels of the wagon was sliding along in an
iron “shoe.”

This is what is often used in the country, and on heavy lumber or stone
wagons, to keep them from going downhill too fast. The “shoe,” as it
is called, is made so that the wheel fits in it. The front of the shoe
is fastened by a chain to the body of the wagon, and thus one wheel is
dragged along the ground, acting as a brake. It is just the same as
when you may be coasting along on one roller skate, you drag the other
foot to act as a brake.

Nearer and nearer the automobile of the Curlytops came to the wagon
load of poles. And just when it seemed as if they must “bunk,” as Janet
called it, though perhaps the “bunk” would not be very hard--just then
the driver, who was walking beside his horse, with the reins in his
hand, came to a wider place in the road.

“I’ll turn in here and you can pass me!” he called.

“All right--thank you!” shouted Mr. Martin.

Carefully he guided the automobile past the load of poles. There was
just about room enough to pass, and not much more. Soon after that the
hill ended and they were on level ground again.

“Mah good land ob goodness, Ah’s glad dat’s ended!” sighed Lucy.

“I guess we’re all glad,” said Mrs. Martin. “You must have your brakes
looked after, Dick!”

“I will,” he said. “I thought they were all right. Some sand must have
gotten in them from the roads. But now we’re all right.”

They were driving along a pleasant road through the woods. All danger
seemed to be over, and Mr. Martin said he wished he had taken the other
way instead of the one the farmer had told about as being the “least
mite shorter.”

“Sometimes the longest way is the best,” said Mr. Martin. “But I think
we’re all right now.”

And they were, for in about half an hour longer they were within sight
of Mount Major, as it was called, the place where Mr. Martin was to set
up the store for the lumbermen.

“Oh, what a lovely place!” cried Janet, as they caught a glimpse of it
from a hill just before reaching it.

“Good place to fish,” observed Ted. “I see a lake and a river.”

“I fish, too!” cried Trouble.

“Doan yo’ fall in!” warned Lucy, hugging the little fellow, who, in
spite of his mischief, was her special favorite.

“Yes, there is plenty of water around here,” said Mr. Martin. “There
needs to be on account of the lumber. Well,” he went on, “I don’t see
any of the men here yet. I guess I’m in plenty of time. I was afraid
I’d be late. Now we’ll unpack and get something to eat. I suppose
you’re hungry, aren’t you, Curlytops?” he asked, with a laugh.

“Terrible!” announced Ted. “Can we cook dinner over a campfire?”

“Maybe, some time,” his father said. “But I think there’s an oil stove
in the bungalow and that will be better when we’re in a hurry.”

“Where’s buffalo?” asked Trouble, looking around. “I don’t see any
buffalo. Has him got a hump on his back?”

“You’re thinking of a camel!” laughed Janet.

“No, a buffalo had a sort of hump up near his head,” remarked Teddy.
“But what makes him ask about a buffalo, anyhow?”

“He means _bungalow_--the place where we’re going to live,” explained
Mrs. Martin with a smile. “There it is, children, over under the trees.
Oh, what a fine place!”

There was a driveway at one side of the bungalow, which was made of
logs, and, a little farther on, a shed where the automobile could be
kept. Leading down from the front door was a path, and this extended to
a lake, the waters of which were as blue as the sky. Flowing into this
lake, not far from the bungalow, was a small river.

All around the lake, along the river and surrounding the bungalow
were trees, trees, trees--so many that the Curlytops never could have
counted them all. And here and there, in cleared places where the trees
had been cut down, were rough buildings, made from logs and “slabs,”
that is, half-rounded pieces of wood that are sawed from logs to make
the timbers square and true.

Over the door of one of the buildings was a sign:

  GENERAL STORE

Seeing this Janet cried:

“Is that where you are going to keep store, Daddy?”

“I’m not exactly going to _keep_ store,” her father replied. “I came up
here to get the store started and to show the men how to run it. They
will be cutting lumber here the rest of the summer and all winter, and
they will want to buy things from the store, as some of the lumbermen
are bringing their families with them.”

As yet none of the lumbermen had arrived, for the camp was not to open
for a few days. It was needful to start the store first so the men
would have something to eat when they should arrive.

Piled about the building that was marked with the store sign were
many boxes and barrels. The Curlytops had seen such packages before
at their father’s store in Cresco, and they knew what the boxes and
barrels held--sugar, canned goods, dried fruits, tea, coffee, oatmeal,
overalls, hats and all the things that go to make up a general store.
All these goods must be taken out of their packages and arranged on the
shelves.

“Couldn’t we help in the store, Daddy?” asked Ted, as his father
started toward the bungalow, to open it with a key he had.

“Oh, yes, I guess so,” was the answer. “I expect a couple of men up to
do the heavy work. They ought to be here now.”

The bungalow was opened and the Curlytop family went inside. The more
they saw of the place the better they liked it. There was a large
living-room with a great fireplace, a dining-room and a kitchen on the
first floor, and upstairs were bedrooms.

“And there are dishes in the pantry, too!” announced Janet, as she came
back from having looked around.

“Is there anything to put on the dishes?” asked Ted, laughing. “I mean
anything to eat?”

“That’s what I want to know, too,” laughed Mr. Martin.

“I’ll soon have something ready,” promised Mrs. Martin. “Come, Lucy, we
must feed these hungry animals.”

“I am bear--that’s what I is!” cried Trouble, and he pretended to growl
like a bear to show how hungry he was.

“I’ll go over and take a look at the store,” announced Mr. Martin.
“There’s wood already cut for the fire,” he said.

“We’ll attend to things,” said Mrs. Martin. “Just bring in the food
from the auto and we’ll soon have a meal ready.”

Mr. Martin and Ted brought in the baskets of victuals that had been
brought along, and then the Curlytop boy and his father, with Trouble
trailing after them, went toward the building that soon was to be made
into a store for the lumbermen to trade at. Janet remained in the
bungalow to help her mother and Lucy.

Mr. Martin had a key to the store building and, opening it, he and the
boys went inside. All there was to be seen now were empty shelves and
counters.

“But this will be a busy place in a few days,” said Mr. Martin. “If
those men were here now I could put them to opening the boxes and
barrels. Maybe they’ll come after dinner.”

He went outside to count how many boxes and barrels there were piled
up around the steps of the store, and while he was doing this Ted and
Trouble roamed about the clearing in the woods where the different
buildings were put up. Some were for the men to sleep in, another was
a kitchen, where food would be prepared, and at the sight of one large
building, with a smoke stack sticking through the roof, Ted cried:

“Oh, is that the sawmill?”

“That’s the sawmill,” his father answered. “But you must never go in
there unless I am with you. It’s dangerous.”

“Couldn’t we go with mother?” Ted wanted to know.

“Well, yes, with your mother. But there is a very big saw in there to
cut up the logs, and it would not only cut off your finger, if you got
too close, but it would do worse. So keep away!”

Ted and Trouble promised that they would, and they teased their father
so hard to take them to the sawmill now that, after he had looked over
the groceries and other supplies, he consented.

Leading from the mill down into the lake was a sort of small railroad
track, sloping like a little hill. And in the middle of the track, and
extending up into the mill, was a big chain.

“What’s that for?” asked Ted.

“That chain pulls the logs up from the river, along this inclined
runway, into the mill,” answered Mr. Martin. “Once the logs are in the
mill they are put on a sort of platform, or on a traveling cradle, and
then machinery pushes them close to the big buzz saw and they are cut
up into boards.”

“Is it a cat’s cradle?” Trouble wanted to know.

“Well, not exactly,” laughed Mr. Martin. “Come in and I’ll show you.
The mill isn’t running now, but it soon will be.”

“Does the chain pull the logs up all by itself?” Ted asked.

“No,” his father replied. “A steam engine winds the chain up on what
is called a drum, just as a rope is wound up on a derrick. In fact,
this runway is like a derrick, only it is stretched out on the ground
instead of being up in the air.”

The boys were much interested in looking over the machinery of the
lumber mill, and they wished for the day to come when it would
start--when the engine would puff and clouds of smoke and steam would
pour from the big stack in the roof.

“I think I hear your mother calling,” said Mr. Martin, after a while.
“We’d better have something to eat.”

Ted and Trouble had been so eager to look around that for a time they
had forgotten about being hungry. However, as their father now spoke of
it they hurried on to the bungalow. In the door stood Lucy, beating on
the bottom of a tin pan with a big spoon.

“Dish yeah am de dinnah gong,” she explained.

“Hurray!” cried Teddy, for he felt so glad and happy at coming to camp
in the woods that he wanted to stand on his head.

Mrs. Martin, with the help of Janet and Lucy, had gotten a fine meal
ready, and they were all so hungry that they greatly enjoyed it. When
it was almost over Janet, looking from the open door out toward the
lake, saw a boat approaching, in which were two men.

“Oh, two tramps are coming!” she murmured. “Will you give them
something to eat, Mother?”

Mr. Martin looked to where his little daughter pointed.

“Those aren’t tramps,” he said.

“They have terribly ragged clothes on,” said Janet.

“You mustn’t think because a man wears old and ragged clothes that he
is always a tramp,” went on Mr. Martin. “I think those are the two
lumbermen who are coming to help me set up the store. And on account of
their rough work, lumbermen cannot go about dressed up. Yes, they’re
lumbermen,” he said, as he saw the two step from the boat, carrying
their axes and some big hooks, with long, heavy handles, by which logs
are turned over and put into place.

“Is this Mr. Martin?” asked one of the men, as the father of the
Curlytops walked down the path toward the lake to meet them.

“That’s my name,” was the answer.

“Well, we were sent to help you in the store,” went on one of the men.
“The rest of the crowd will be over to-morrow. My name is Jack Nestor
and this is my partner, Henry Hart,” he concluded.

“Glad to know you,” replied Mr. Martin. “Well, there is plenty to do,
and the sooner we get started the better. Come on, I’ll show you what’s
to be done.”

While Mr. Martin was busy with those who were to be his helpers,
and while Mrs. Martin, Lucy and Janet were clearing away the dinner
things, Ted and Trouble wandered off through the woods. It was a most
delightful place, Ted decided.

“The best one I’ve ever been to on vacation,” he said.

Trouble, too, seemed to like it, running here and there in the woods.
Then the little fellow had one of his many ideas.

“Can you make me a whistle?” he asked his brother. “I want a whistle.”

“Yes, I guess I can make you a willow whistle,” said Ted, as he took
out his knife. “There’s a willow tree growing over there.” He pointed
to one near the bank of the lake, and soon he and Trouble were sitting
on a mossy log under the drooping willow tree while Ted cut a branch
and was fashioning it into a whistle for his brother.

Ted cut the bark around and pounded it to soften it so it could be
slipped off, for this must be done if a whistle is rightly made. Ted
used the handle of his knife to pound the bark lightly. Then he laid
his knife down on the log and began to twist off the piece of bark.

While waiting for his brother to do this Trouble had wandered about
the little clearing under the willow tree. Before Ted knew it Trouble
was out of his sight, and, hearing the little fellow tramping in the
underbrush, Ted started up after him.

“Here, come back!” he called to Trouble.

Trouble was headed for the lake, and he had been told he must not go
there alone.

“Come back here, you little tyke!” cried Ted. “First you know you’ll
fall in and I’ll have to fish you out.”

“Aw right, I come back,” agreed Trouble, stopping short. He feared if
he did not mind he would get no whistle. “I just go to see maybe if
fish in lake,” he said.

“You can’t tell by looking at a lake if it has fish in it or not,” said
Teddy. “Now you stay by me if you want that whistle.”

As the boys started back toward the log on which they had been sitting,
they saw a strange sight.

“Look! Look!” cried Trouble, pointing with a chubby finger toward the
log. “Look at black bird takin’ my whistle!”

“No, he isn’t taking your whistle, I have that here!” said Teddy.
“But it’s a crow and he’s after something. Oh, he’s got my knife!” he
cried a moment later, as the big, black bird rose from the log, with
something glittering held fast in his bill.




CHAPTER XI

TROUBLE IN THE STORE


“Caw! Caw! Caw!” came a hoarse cry, as the black bird fluttered up off
the log, carrying away Ted’s bright and glittering knife, for crows
like to take bright things, you know.

“Caw! Caw! Caw!” again sounded the cry.

Then Ted and Trouble noticed that it was not the crow that had the
knife that was doing the cawing. It was some other crow farther off
in the woods. For if the crow that had flown down and picked up Ted’s
knife from the log had opened its mouth to caw, it would have had to
drop the knife. A crow must open its beak to call, just as you have to
open your mouth to sing, or as a dog opens its mouth to bark.

“Drop my knife! Drop my knife, you funny black crow!” cried Ted.

“Frow suffin’ at him! Frow suffin’!” cried Trouble, so eager and
excited that he forgot to talk straight. “Frow suffin’!”

“I’ll throw something all right!” shouted Ted.

“Don’t frow my whistle,” begged Trouble.

Ted had been about to do this, forgetting that the stick he held in his
hand was the one on one end of which he had started the whistle for his
small brother.

“I’ll throw a stone!” cried the Curlytop boy.

Off in the woods sounded the caw of that other crow. And, just as Ted
threw a stone at the black bird that had picked up his knife, though
Ted did not hit the crow, the feathered thief with the knife in his
beak opened his mouth and sent out an answering:

“Caw! Caw! Caw!”

Of course as soon as it opened its mouth down fell the knife, and away
the crow flew.

“You made him drop it!” cried Trouble.

“I guess he had to drop it to caw,” said Ted, which was more like the
truth, for the stone he had thrown did not come anywhere near the crow.
“I hope I find my knife,” Teddy went on.

He ran toward the place where he had seen it fall from the crow’s beak,
and as the bird circled overhead, crying and cawing in answer to the
other, which the boys did not see, Ted and his brother searched amid
the leaves for the missing knife.

After poking about for some time they picked it up, and Ted looked at
it carefully to see if it might be damaged. But it was none the worse
from having been nearly carried off by the crow.

“What made him want it?” asked Trouble, as the whistle-making started
again.

“Oh, I guess maybe he wanted to give it to his little boy,” Ted
answered, with a laugh, as he carefully whittled away at the whistle.

“Has crows got little boys?” Trouble wanted to know.

“Yes, I guess so; and little girls, too,” explained Teddy.

“But how can a crow boy cut with a knife?” persisted William. “How can
he?”

“Well, I guess maybe he doesn’t, except in fairy stories,” said Ted.

“What makes crows caw?” was Trouble’s next question.

“That’s the way they talk.”

“Oh, does crows talk?” eagerly cried Trouble. He listened a moment.
Over the trees floated a cry of:

“Caw! Caw! Caw!”

“What’s him crow sayin’?” he demanded.

“Oh, I don’t know!” Ted had to confess. “You ask too many questions,
Trouble! I can’t answer half of ’em. Crows must talk among themselves
same’s dogs talk when they rub noses and wag their tails. Now there’s
your whistle. Blow on it and then you can’t ask so many questions.”

He shut his knife and put it in his pocket, while Trouble put the
blowing end of the whistle in his lips. It gave forth a shrill, clear
sound.

“’At’s a fine whistle!” Trouble said. “Thanks you, Ted.”

“All right, boysie! I’m glad you like it. That’s it--toot away!”

As Trouble blew harder on the whistle several birds in the trees seemed
to sing in answer. And again, over the trees, came the hoarse voices of
the crows.

“Caw! Caw! Caw-aw-aw!” they cried.

“Maybe they wants a whistle,” suggested Trouble.

“Maybe,” agreed Ted, with a laugh. “Well, I’m not going to make them
any. That was a bold fellow to come down and take my knife like that!”

And when Ted and Trouble reached the bungalow and told what had
happened, Janet said:

“Oh, Ted! Maybe that was Mr. Jenk’s tame crow.”

“What, the one that tried to fly away with my knife?”

“Yes, maybe that was Jim, the lame crow, and if you could have caught
him we’d get ten dollars.”

Teddy shook his head.

“That wasn’t Jim crow,” he said.

“How do you know?” asked Janet.

“’Cause he wasn’t lame,” answered her brother. “I watched him walk
along on the log ’fore he picked up my knife and he didn’t limp a bit.”

“Maybe it was Mr. Jenk’s lame, tame crow,” persisted Janet, “but maybe
he got well after he flew off to the woods, and maybe he’s here now.”

Ted shook his head in doubt.

“This is too far away for Mr. Jenk’s crow to come,” he said. “And he
couldn’t get well. He was lame from a broken leg and Mr. Jenk said Jim
would always be lame like he was ’cause one leg was shorter than the
other.”

“Oh,” murmured Janet. “Well, anyhow, I’m glad he didn’t take your
knife.”

“So’m I,” agreed Teddy.

There were now busy times at Mount Major; at least for Mr. Martin,
as he must watch over and tell the two men, Jack and Henry, as they
called themselves, about putting the groceries and merchandise away
on the shelves. In another day or two the lumbermen would arrive and
there would be more busy scenes in the woods where the Curlytops were
spending their vacation.

By the time the boxes and barrels of supplies had been unpacked and
placed on the shelves, some of the lumbermen arrived. There were men
who chopped down the great trees, other men who piled them on skids and
wagons and hauled them to the lake or river, where they were sent down
long slides, or chutes, then to be floated to the mill.

In parts of the woods too far from the water, the logs were carted to
the mill on wagons and piled up outside to wait for the sawmill to cut
them into lumber.

There was a special “gang” of men to operate the sawmill, and this was
the place Ted best liked to linger near. He was much interested in
machinery. Trouble was, too, and went with his brother each time Ted
started for the mill.

As Mr. Martin had said, some of the lumber workers brought their
families to the woods with them, and these men, women and children were
given homes in small cabins that were specially built for them.

In about a week after the Curlytops had arrived at the bungalow in the
woods, Mount Major was a very lively place. The store was opened and
doing business. Mr. Martin acted as manager of the store for a time,
and he had several clerks to wait on the customers.

“It’s funny to see a store in the woods like this,” said Janet to her
mother.

“Yes, but when men work they must eat, and to eat they have to buy
things,” answered Mrs. Martin with a smile. “Besides, your father makes
money by coming up here to start the store. And if we had no money we
could not have things to eat and things to wear.”

“I see,” said Janet, with a smile.

Most of that first week was spent in getting things to rights about the
camp and in setting up the store. Then, too, the sawmill had to be made
ready, so at first no trees were cut.

But at last the day came when lumbering was really started, and as a
special treat the Curlytops and Trouble were taken by their mother to
watch one of the big trees being felled.

“Shall we be safe here?” she asked one of the choppers.

“Oh, yes,” he answered. “The tree will fall over that way,” and he
waved his hand toward an open place in the woods.

“Mother, how can he tell just where the tree is going to fall?” asked
Janet.

“Oh, they have a way of knowing,” she answered.

“It all depends on the way we chop it,” explained the lumberman, who
overheard what Janet had asked. “It takes practice, but we can make a
tree fall anywhere we want it to.”

And this proved to be the case. Two men chopped at the big trunk, one
on either side. Their bright axes flashed in the sunshine and the white
chips flew about.

“We must come back here after the tree is cut, and pick up some of the
chips,” said Mrs. Martin to the children. “Chips are fine for putting
on the fire to make the tea-kettle boil quickly.”

“I wish I could chop a tree,” sighed Trouble.

“Oh, you mustn’t ever touch one of the men’s axes!” warned Mrs. Martin,
for she could read Trouble’s mind at times. “They are so sharp they
would cut you badly.”

“They’re shiny, too,” said Trouble. “I guess maybe a crow would like to
carry one off like they took your knife, wouldn’t they, Ted?” he asked.

“Ho! Ho! A crow would have a fine time trying to fly away with an axe!”
laughed Ted.

“Well, but if maybe six ten dozen crows--now--tried to take a axe they
could--couldn’t they, Mother?” asked the little fellow.

“Well, I don’t know,” was the answer Mrs. Martin thought it safest to
make.

Chop! Chop! Chop! went the sharp axes to the trunk of the tree. Soon
the top part began to quiver and sway.

“Look out! She’s going to fall!” cried one of the lumbermen.

“We’d better run back, children!” said Mrs. Martin.

“Stay where you are, lady! You’ll be all right,” advised the head
chopper.

Crash!

Down went the tree, and just as the lumberman had said, it fell in
exactly the spot picked out for it, and nowhere near the place where
Mrs. Martin stood with the Curlytops and Trouble.

“Hurray!” cried Teddy. “Good work!” He had often heard his father say
that.

“Glad you liked it,” laughed one of the men.

Then they began trimming from the tree the branches, so the log could
be taken to the mill, either being floated down the river or carted
on the wagon or skids. The skids formed a sort of long, low sled with
wooden runners, and in smooth places this could be pulled over the
ground, dragging logs where they were needed.

That night, after a pleasant day in the woods, during which the
Curlytops had much fun, Janet watched her mother laying aside some
rings and a breastpin, as Mrs. Martin was getting ready for bed.

“You didn’t find the little diamond locket I lost, did you, Mother?”
asked Janet wistfully.

“No, dear, I didn’t,” was the reply. “But don’t worry about it,” she
went on, as she saw the sad look on Janet’s face. “Perhaps we may find
it sometime, though when I didn’t come across it after we packed up to
come here, I began to lose hope.”

“Oh, I’m so sorry!” murmured Janet.

“Don’t worry,” said her mother kindly, and Janet went to bed to dream
that she had found the locket and that the diamond in it had grown as
large as an orange. When she awakened and found it only a dream, she
was very much disappointed.

However, the day that dawned was such a bright and pleasant one and
there was the prospect of so much fun in the woods that Janet could not
long be sad.

“Come on out and play!” called Ted.

“We have fun!” added Trouble.

“We’ll play camping out in the woods,” said Janet. “We’ll make believe
we’re the early settlers like the Pilgrims we read about in our school
books, Ted.”

“That’ll be fun,” he agreed.

“I not goin’ to take any pills!” objected Trouble, as he heard that
strange word. “I not sick and I not take pills!”

“You don’t have to take pills!” laughed Janet. “We were talking about
the Pilgrims.”

“Who is them?” Trouble wanted to know.

“Oh, they used to fight with the Indians,” said Ted.

“Den I be a Pigwim!” announced Trouble, which was as near as he could
say it. “Does Pigwims eat?” he wanted to know.

“Of course they do!” said Teddy. “We’ll go to the store and get daddy
to give us things to eat in the woods,” he added.

Mr. Martin was glad to have the children roam in the woods in play,
and he gave them some packages of crackers for their lunch. While he
was wrapping them up for Teddy and Janet, baby William wandered behind
the store counter. A lumberman entered as Mr. Martin finished giving
the Curlytops what they had asked for. Looking behind the counter the
lumberman gave a start and suddenly cried:

“There’s trouble here!”

“Yes, I know Trouble is here,” said Mr. Martin, thinking the man meant
the little boy. “Come out, Trouble!” he called.

“No, but I mean there’s a different kind of trouble!” exclaimed the
man. “I don’t mean your boy, though he may have been the cause of it.”

“The cause of what?” asked Mr. Martin, starting for the counter behind
which he had seen William wander.

“The cause of the molasses running all over,” was the reply. “The
spigot of the barrel is open and there’s a big puddle of molasses on
the floor. It’s growing bigger!

“Look out there, young man!” he quickly cried, taking a step forward.
“Look out, or you’ll sit in it. Oh, too late!” he gasped. “He’s gone
and done it! Right in the molasses he is! Right in the molasses!”




CHAPTER XII

TED IS CAUGHT


Trouble grunted. Then he grunted again. Then he tried to get up from
the floor where, as the lumberman said, the little fellow had sat down
in a puddle of molasses.

But Trouble found he couldn’t get up. His clothing stuck to the messy,
sweet stuff and thus was held to the floor, almost as if it had been
tacked there.

Then Trouble began to cry.

His father had run around the end of the counter to look behind it as
soon as the lumberman spoke of the molasses. Ted and Janet followed
their father. Thus all of them saw the trouble poor Trouble was in.

“Oh, he is stuck!” cried Ted, hardly able to keep from laughing.

“You poor dear!” murmured Janet. “I’ll get you up!”

“No, don’t go near him, or you’ll get in the molasses, too,” warned
Mr. Martin. “Stay where you are, Janet. I’ll lift Trouble out. Don’t
cry, William,” he added kindly, as he saw tears rolling down the little
fellow’s face. “You couldn’t help it--I suppose,” he went on. “That is,
unless you opened the spigot of the molasses barrel.”

“I only--now--er--I--now--only opened it a little bit of a way,” sobbed
Trouble. “I wanted to see--now--how fast it would run out and it runned
out an’ I--I couldn’t shut it off! Oh, dear!”

“Hum! I must put a lock on my molasses barrels if you are going to be
around the store,” said Mr. Martin. He had first reached over Trouble’s
head and shut off the stream of sweet stuff which no longer dribbled
out on the floor. Then Mr. Martin lifted Trouble from his sticky seat,
having to pull rather hard to get the little fellow up from the floor.

“My, but you need a bath!” cried Daddy Martin, holding Trouble as far
away from him as possible so the dripping molasses would not soil his
own clothes. “I guess I’ll dip you in the lake,” he added, with a
laugh.

“Oh, yes, give me a swim!” cried Trouble, thinking now only of this new
fun.

“I believe I will,” said his father. “Your clothes will have to be
soaked, anyhow, to get the molasses off, and I may as well soak you and
them at the same time. It’s a warm day--just right for a bath.”

“Oh, may we go in, too?” begged Ted.

“No, I’d rather you wouldn’t now,” his father said.

“Anyhow, we’re going to play Pilgrims,” said Janet. “We’ll wait for
you, Trouble,” she went on. “We’ll wait until you get cleaned up.”

Telling one of the clerks in the store to have the puddle of molasses
mopped up and asking another man to look after things while he was
gone, Mr. Martin took Trouble down to the lake, which was not far from
the woodland store.

“What in the world are you going to do, Dick?” cried Mrs. Martin, as,
coming over from the bungalow, she saw her husband on his way to the
lake with baby William.

“Daddy goin’ put me in water!” cried Trouble, now as much delighted as
he had been frightened.

“What has happened?” asked his mother.

“He sat in the molasses!” answered Ted.

“And he opened the barrel and it all ran out on the floor,” added Janet.

“Oh, Trouble!” sighed his mother.

“There didn’t much molasses run out,” corrected Mr. Martin. “Only about
a quart, I guess, for he couldn’t get the spigot all the way open.”

He told what had happened, and said he thought the best way was to wash
Trouble and his sticky clothes at the same time.

“Yes, it is a good way,” agreed Mrs. Martin. “I’ll do it, though, Dick.
You go clean yourself off and get back to the store.”

“I guess I need a little scrubbing myself,” admitted Mr. Martin, with
a laugh, as he looked at the spots of molasses that had dripped from
Trouble to his trousers. Luckily they were an old pair that he had put
on to do some rough work about the store, and he could easily change
them.

“Dis lots ob fun!” announced Trouble, as his mother sat him down in the
shallow water at the edge of the lake. “I go swimmin’ wif my clothes
on! Ho! Ho!”

“Yes, it’s fun for you,” said his mother. “But it makes a lot of work
for Lucy. She’ll have to wash and iron your clothes. I don’t suppose
there is much use in telling you not to do it again, for I don’t
believe you will do that same thing again. But you’ll do something just
as bad.”

And those of you who know Trouble will, no doubt, agree with Mrs.
Martin.

Everything comes to an end at last, and so did the cleaning of Trouble.
Dressed in dry garments, he went off with his brother and sister to the
woods to play “Pigwim,” as he called it.

The children had with them some packages of crackers and other good
things to eat for their lunch, and they hoped to have a lot of fun. Nor
were they disappointed, for it was a lovely day to wander out among the
trees of the forest.

The Curlytops and their little brother played “Pigwim” in the woods,
pretending to be early Pilgrim Father settlers in fear of an attack by
the Indians. Ted took the part of the Indians and made believe attack
the log cabin of Trouble and Janet. The log cabin was made by piling
some twigs the lumbermen had left against an old stump. Afterwards Ted
pretended to chase Trouble and Janet through the woods and they hid
away from him.

The children finally became tired of this game and started another.
Then it was “time to eat,” as Trouble said, so they found a flat stump
for a table and spread out on it the lunch their father had given them
from the store.

“Doesn’t it taste good?” asked Ted of his sister.

“Awful good,” she agreed.

“Better’n it does at home,” added Ted.

“I ’ike it, too,” declared Trouble.

As I suppose you have all noticed, a picnic lunch, even if it is only
crackers or bread and butter, tastes better than the finest meal served
on plates with silver knives and forks and a spotless tablecloth.

Suddenly, when the children were eating the last of their lunch, they
heard a crackling in the bushes near them, and Trouble cried:

“It’s a bear!”

But it was nothing of the sort. It was only a couple of the lumbermen
breaking their way through the underbrush and slashing at it with their
sharp axes.

[Illustration: THERE WAS A MOMENT OF SILENCE AND THEN THE GREAT TRUNK
CRASHED TO THE GROUND.

  “The Curlytops in the Woods.”      Page 144]

“Hello, kiddies!” greeted one of the men, with whom the Curlytops had
been friendly. “You’d better run away from here now,” he went on.

“Is a bear comin’?” asked Trouble.

“Oh, no,” laughed the man. “But we’re going to cut down some trees near
here, and you might get hurt. Better run home.”

“Couldn’t we stay and watch you cut?” asked Ted.

“Yes, if you get in a safe place,” was the answer.

“I’ll put them where they won’t get hit,” said the other man.

Accordingly the Curlytops and Trouble were led to a secure place
between some big rocks and tall trees, and there they could have a good
view of the chopping work. Even if some branches should fall near them,
the rocks and trees would keep the toppling wood off.

Then began the chopping of a giant of the forest. First one and then
the other of the big lumbermen would send his axe biting deep into the
wood of the tree they had marked to chop down.

Chip! Chop! Chip! Chop! sounded the axes, ringing out in the woods.
Silently the children watched.

“She’s going to fall!” suddenly cried Ted.

He had seen the top of the tree begin to quiver and shake, and he had
learned to know that this meant the center had been chopped through.

“Stand clear!” rang out the cry of the lumbermen, to warn anyone who
might chance to be coming and who did not know what was going on.

There was a moment of silence and then the great trunk crashed to the
ground, breaking in its fall many smaller trees and the bushes.

“When I grow up I’m going to cut trees down,” declared Ted.

“I’d rather plant them and see them grow,” said Janet.

“Well, if they didn’t cut trees down we wouldn’t have any houses to
live in,” Teddy remarked.

“I s’pose so,” agreed his sister. “But it’s kind of sad to see a big
tree that took years and years to grow chopped down in a few minutes.”

In the days that followed the Curlytops had wonderfully good times in
the woods. They watched the men chop down trees, they saw the big logs
floated down the lake or river to the mill, or else saw them skidded
along through the forest to be sawed up into planks.

The sawmill itself was a place of great delight, and the children spent
more time there than anywhere else. But they were told to be very
careful, and were not allowed to go close to the giant saw unless their
father or mother or one of the men went with them.

One day, when Trouble was not feeling very well--though his illness was
only a childish complaint that would soon pass--Ted and Janet started
for the woods together.

“Where are you going?” their mother asked them as they started off.

“Oh, no place special,” answered Ted. “I thought maybe I could catch a
crow.”

“Catch a crow? What for?” she asked.

“If I could catch one maybe I could tame it and teach it tricks,”
replied the boy. “And then I could sell it to Mr. Jenk in place of his
lame, tame crow that flew away.”

“He’d pay us a lot of money,” added Janet, who had been talked into
this plan by her eager brother.

“I guess you’ll have a lot of trouble catching a crow,” laughed their
mother. “And even if you do get one, you could never tame it. Now don’t
get into danger,” she added, as they walked off through the trees.

“We’ll be careful,” they promised.

And they really meant to. It only goes to show that you never can tell
what will happen in the woods.

At first Ted had an idea that it would be easy to catch a crow. He
had made a sort of trap from a box that could be turned upside down
and held raised at one end with a stick. To the stick was fastened a
string. Ted thought it was a fine trap.

“I’ll raise the box,” he explained to Janet, “and I’ll put some corn
under it. Crows like corn. I’ll be hiding off in the bushes with the
end of the string in my hand. Then when a crow goes under the box to
get the corn, I’ll pull the string and down will come the box.”

“I see!” cried Janet. “And the crow will be under it.”

“Yes,” agreed Ted, “the crow will be under it and we can take him out
and tame him.”

But it was not as easy as it sounded. In the first place crows seemed
very scarce that day. And it was not until the Curlytops had tramped
over a mile that they heard the distant cawing of one.

“I guess we’ve got to the right place,” whispered Ted, as he heard the
“caw! caw!”

“Yes, set the trap now,” agreed Janet.

Accordingly the box was propped up on the stick and Ted, with the end
of the string in his hand, hid off behind a distant bush with Janet,
where they could watch the scattered corn under the box.

But though the cawing of the crows sounded nearer, none came to the
trap, and after a long wait the Curlytops thought they had better try a
new place. They did, but all they caught in their trap was a hoptoad,
and this they soon let go.

“Well, maybe we’ll catch a crow some other day,” said Ted.

“Maybe,” agreed his sister.

They wandered on through the pleasant woods, and soon Ted cried:

“Look, there goes a fox!”

“Where?” cried Janet.

“In that hollow log,” and Ted pointed to one on the ground--an old
giant of a fallen tree which had rotted from the inside until it was
quite hollow, like a pipe. “I’m going in and catch that fox,” decided
Ted. “I’d rather catch a fox, any day, than a crow.”

“Yes, it’s bigger,” said Janet.

Neither of them stopped to think that it might be dangerous for a small
boy to crawl into a hollow log after a fox. For though a fox is rather
a cowardly creature, slinking around only at night to catch hens out of
the coop, still a fox has sharp teeth, and, cornered in a hollow log,
one would make a savage fight to get away.

“I’ll crawl in and get him,” said Ted, as he and his sister reached the
hollow log. “You stand at the other end,” he directed Janet, “and if he
comes out there, grab him!”

“Won’t he bite?” asked Janet.

“Oh, no!” declared Ted. And that was all he knew about it!

“Maybe you’d better poke a long stick in and drive him out that way,”
suggested Janet. “It’s better’n crawling in.”

Ted thought of this for a moment.

“I’ll try it,” he agreed.

He thrust the longest pole he could find into the hollow log, but no
fox ran out the other end into the waiting hands of Janet.

“I guess I can’t quite reach him,” decided Ted. “I’ll crawl in after
him.”

He took off his coat to make the crawling easier, and started in at one
end of the hollow log. Janet, as directed, was at the other end to be
ready in case the fox ran out.

Teddy’s head disappeared from sight inside the log. Then his body
wiggled in and lastly his legs vanished. All that stuck out were his
two feet, and from her end of the log Janet saw these waving up and
down and from side to side. But they did not disappear. They remained
outside the log.

“Why don’t you crawl all the way in, Ted?” asked his sister.

“I--I--can’t,” came the muffled answer.

“You can’t? Why not?”

“’Cause I’m stuck! I’m stuck! Oh, Janet, I’m stuck in the log and I
can’t get out!” wailed Teddy.




CHAPTER XIII

ALONE IN THE WOODS


This was not the first time Teddy had gotten in trouble when he and
Janet were alone together. Often it happened at home, and so the
Curlytop girl was not as much surprised as she might have been if this
was the first time.

Janet left the end of the log where she was keeping guard, to catch the
fox if it should rush out, and she hurried around to the end in which
Ted had crawled.

“Can’t you crawl in any farther?” she asked.

The still muffled voice of her brother answered:

“No, I can’t crawl a bit more! I’m stuck!”

“Well, then,” said Janet, in the most natural way possible, “never mind
about the fox. We don’t want him anyhow. Crawl out and we’ll go home.”

“But I _can’t_!” cried Teddy, and now his voice sounded as if he might
be going to cry.

“What can’t you do?” Janet wanted to know.

“I can’t crawl out!” By this time Teddy was very much frightened. Janet
could tell that by the catch in his voice. “I can’t crawl in and I
can’t back up. I’m stuck! I’m stuck! You’d better go and get some one
to help me out!”

But Janet was not going to run away so soon. She made up her mind to
try something herself first.

“I’ll take hold of your feet and pull you out,” she offered. “Keep your
feet still, now!” she commanded, as she went closer to the flapping
shoes of her brother. “Keep ’em still or you’ll kick me!”

“All right,” said Teddy. “You can try, but I don’t believe you can pull
me out.”

Janet could not. Though she tugged and tugged with both hands at Ted’s
shoes, bracing her own feet against the end of the log, she could not
stir her brother one inch.

“Why don’t you wiggle?” she finally asked, quite out of breath.

“Why don’t I what?” asked Ted.

“Why don’t you wiggle a little an’ help yourself?” demanded Janet. “I
can’t do it all alone! When I pull, you wiggle, an’ maybe you’ll get
out that way.”

“All right,” agreed Ted. “But I can’t wiggle very much. It’s awful
tight in here!”

Once more Janet took hold of his shoes and began to pull. At the same
time Ted pushed with his hands backward inside the log and “wiggled.”

But it seemed to be of little use. No more of Ted’s legs stuck out from
inside the log than at first.

Then he suddenly cried:

“Stop! Quit!”

“What’s the matter?” asked Janet. “Am I hurting you?”

“No, but my shoes are coming off!” answered Ted. And even as he spoke
Janet pulled so hard that the left shoe came completely off Ted’s foot,
and the other was partly off.

“Well, now I’ve got to push you,” decided Janet, as she dropped the one
shoe. “If I can’t pull you I got to push you! Maybe you’ll come out the
other end with the fox.”

“There isn’t any fox in here,” said Teddy. “I can see clear through
to the other end and there’s nothing in the log but me--I’m here all
right, an’ I wish I could get out! Oh, dear!”

“I’ll help you! I’ll push,” offered Janet.

She was about to push on Ted’s feet as they stuck from the log, but he
stopped her with a cry.

“Don’t do it! Don’t do it!” he begged. “If you push me any farther I’ll
be stuck worse!”

“What’ll I do then?” asked Janet.

“You go get somebody! Get somebody to help me out!” wailed Ted.

“I will!” cried his sister, and without trying any more she hurried
away through the woods.

She expected to have to go all the way to the bungalow to tell her
father or mother about the plight of poor Teddy. But half way there
Janet met two of the lumbermen and to them she told of her brother’s
plight.

“Caught in a hollow log, is he?” asked one man. “Well, we’ll soon have
him out.”

“Show us where he is, little girl,” said the other man, and Janet led
the way.

On her way back through the woods with the lumbermen, the little
Curlytop girl half feared that when she reached the place where she
had left Ted stuck in the log she might find his feet being nibbled
by the same fox they had tried to catch. But nothing like this had
happened.

There was the log; there was no sign of a fox or other wild animal; and
Ted’s feet were still sticking out, waving slowly.

“Here we are, Ted!” cried Janet. “I’ve brought back two lumbermen with
me.”

“Oh, get me out! Get me out!” wailed Ted, in a muffled voice.

“We’ll soon have you out, little man,” said one of the lumbermen.
“Don’t be afraid. We can easily split this log,” he added to his
companion.

“That’s right,” agreed the other. “See,” he said to Janet, “this log
has a big crack all the way along it. We’ll just put in some wedges
and they will make the crack wider. Then the hole in the log will get
bigger and we can pull your brother out.”

“Oh, I hope you can!” sighed Janet.

“Sure we can!” declared one of the lumbermen. “Stay quiet now, little
man,” he added.

And Teddy kept very still and quiet inside the log while on the outside
the lumbermen cut and drove in with their axes some wedges of wood.

A wedge, you know, is shaped like the letter V. The narrow part was put
in the crack, and then the top, or wide part, was pounded on. As the
V’s went farther and farther into the crack, the crack opened wider.
This made the hole in the log larger as the fallen tree trunk was split
more widely open.

“Oh, now I can get out! Now I can get out!” joyfully cried Ted, as he
felt the log loosening around him. “Now I can get out!”

And a few seconds later he managed to wriggle and back out of the log
himself, little the worse because of his adventure. His face was red,
for it was hot inside the fallen tree, and his clothes were covered
with pieces of brown, rotten wood. But this easily brushed off.

“How did you happen to go in there?” asked one of the men.

“I wanted to drive out a fox so my sister could catch him,” answered
the Curlytop boy.

“Well, I wouldn’t do that again,” the man went on. “In the first place,
no fox will ever run into a place unless there is a way of running out
again, and he can run out quicker than you can run in.

“Another thing, never try to catch a fox in your bare hands. They have
very sharp teeth and they’ll nip you badly. You have to wear heavy
gloves when you handle a fox. But even if you had driven him out of
your sister’s end of the log, Teddy, I guess he would have leaped past
Janet so quickly that it would have looked like a flash of lightning.”

“That’s right!” added the other tree chopper.

“I won’t do it any more,” Teddy promised.

“We didn’t get a crow and we didn’t get a fox,” sighed Janet, rather
sadly.

The lumbermen laughed, and one said:

“You tried to catch two of the hardest creatures in the world to trap.
A fox and a crow are the slyest of all animals and birds, and for years
so many have tried to trap and shoot them that they have grown very
wise.”

“There is a man who lives near us in Cresco,” said Teddy, “who had a
lame, tame crow that could stand on one leg and pull a cork from a
bottle.”

“He could?” cried the lumbermen.

“Not really pull corks,” explained Janet. “He just made a noise like a
cork popping out of a bottle. But he was cute and he would stand on one
leg so funny.”

“But he flew away,” added Teddy. “And if we could find him we’d get ten
dollars reward.”

“I’d look at a crow a long time before I’d give ten dollars for one;
wouldn’t you, Jake?” asked one man of the other.

“That’s right, Sam,” was the answer.

“But if you see this lame, tame crow, will you please tell us?” begged
Janet. “’Cause we’d like to take him back to Mr. Jenk and get the ten
dollars.”

“Yes, if we see that crow we’ll try to catch him for you,” promised the
men.

“And if I got the ten dollars I’d buy my mother a new diamond locket in
place of the one I lost for her,” went on Janet.

“How was that?” asked one of the men, for they took a kindly interest
in the children. Then Janet told how the ornament was lost the day she
and her brother were playing house with Trouble.

“That was too bad,” remarked Jake. And then, as the children went back
home with the crow trap in which they had caught nothing, one lumberman
said to the other:

“I guess there isn’t one chance in a hundred of finding that lame, tame
crow.”

“I should say not,” agreed the other. “Nor of finding that diamond
locket, either.”

Of course those at the bungalow must be told of what had happened to
Ted in the hollow log, and he was warned not to try such a dangerous
thing again.

Many times the Curlytops visited the general store, which was now
running well under the direction of Mr. Martin. The lumbermen and their
families bought their supplies at the store, and so did some of the
near-by farmers. Once Silas Armstrong, on whose load of hay Trouble had
gone to sleep, came to buy groceries, and he had a pleasant chat with
the Curlytops.

It was about a week after Ted’s adventure in the hollow log that
something else happened to him. Some of the lumbermen had been sent to
a distant part of the woods to build a chute, or slide, for the logs
to shoot down into the river. Then a slight accident occurred to the
sawmill machinery and the foreman of it wanted all the help he could
get to mend the trouble.

“I wish Jake and Sam were here,” said the foreman, as he and all the
other men worked hard to mend the broken machinery. “But they’re away
over by the new chute.”

“I’ll go after them and tell them to come here,” offered Ted.

“Will you? All right, young Curlytop!” exclaimed the foreman. “Do you
know the way?”

“Oh, yes!” answered Ted, quite confident.

If Mr. Martin had been there or in the store, which was not far from
the mill, he might not have let Teddy go. But the father of the
Curlytops was off in another part of the forest seeing about something
connected with the business. And Ted never asked his mother if he might
go. He just went.

Off he started through the woods to go to the distant place where Jake
and Sam--the two men who had gotten him out of the log--were working on
the chute.

At first the path through the woods was very plain, and Ted had no
trouble. But after a while the trail became fainter and more than once
the Curlytop boy stopped and looked about him, listening for the sound
of chopping axes.

“I don’t seem to hear any,” he murmured; “but I’m sure this is the
right path.”

But it was not, and the farther Ted wandered the more distant he got
from the place where the men were working. Deeper he went into the
forest until at last he had to stop and give up.

“I--I guess I’m lost!” murmured Ted. His heart began to beat strangely.
It was a fearful feeling to be alone in the woods. And that is what had
happened to poor Teddy.




CHAPTER XIV

A STRANGE CRY


Jake and Sam, who had been sent to the distant part of the woods to
build the long chute, of course knew nothing of Teddy having been sent
to call them back to help mend the broken machinery in the sawmill.
Meanwhile the foreman and his “gang” did the best they could without
the two missing ones.

“I don’t see why Jake and Sam didn’t hurry back here to help us,” said
one lumberman.

“That’s so,” agreed another. “It would have been a lot easier if they
had been here.”

Just then the foreman looked up, after the hardest part of the work had
been finished, and he said:

“There come Jake and Sam now.”

Surely enough, the chute builders were approaching.

“Well, you took your own time getting here,” said the foreman.

“Took our own time? What do you mean?” asked Jake.

“Didn’t you tell us to stay in the woods and finish making that new
chute to send the logs down to the river?” asked Sam.

“Yes, but a while ago I sent the Curlytop boy to tell you to hurry back
here and help us. We had an accident in the sawmill, but it’s all fixed
now. Why didn’t you two come?”

“Because no one told us to,” was the answer.

“Didn’t you see Teddy?” asked the foreman, whose name was Tod Everett.

“Nary a sign of him,” answered Jake.

“Whew!” whistled Tod. “He must have wandered off--maybe he went
fishing--and forgot to tell you. But he’s a pretty good boy for his
age. I don’t believe he’d do a thing like forgetting on purpose.”

“What do you think happened?” asked Jake.

“I’m afraid he didn’t know in what part of the woods to look for you,
though he was sure he knew his way,” said the foreman. “But maybe his
mother saw him going and called him back. I’d better go over to the
house and find out. It’s getting late and will soon be dark.”

Tod Everett, the foreman, tried not to let his voice sound anxious as
he asked Mrs. Martin:

“Is Teddy around?”

“No,” she answered. “Isn’t he over at the mill with you?”

The foreman shook his head.

“He was there,” he replied. “But we had an accident and----”

“An accident!” cried Mrs. Martin.

“Don’t be worried! It was just that one of the saws broke. No one was
hurt, and Teddy wasn’t even around when it happened. But I needed Jake
and Sam to help the other men, and I was going to send one of the men
for them, over where they were building a chute, when Teddy offered to
go. He said he knew the way.”

“Yes, I suppose he does,” agreed Mrs. Martin. “Didn’t he go?”

“I thought he had until Jake and Sam came back just now and said they
hadn’t seen him,” went on the foreman. “I thought maybe you saw him
starting off and called him back.”

“No, I didn’t,” said Mrs. Martin. “I am afraid something may have
happened to him,” she added.

“The only thing that could happen would be that he might get on the
wrong trail and wander off a little bit,” said Tod. “I’ll get the gang
out and we’ll soon find him.”

A few minutes later Mr. Martin arrived, and though he was worried when
told about the absence of Teddy, he believed that the missing Curlytop
lad would shortly be found.

“But it will soon be night!” his wife remarked.

“We’ll find him before then,” he said.

A searching party was quickly organized, two of them, in fact, one to
go one way and the second another way. And as the shadows began to get
longer, showing that darkness was on its way, the lumbermen, led by Mr.
Martin, started off into the forest.

“Oh, I do hope they find Teddy before it gets dark!” sighed Janet.

“So do I,” murmured her mother.

Meanwhile perhaps we had better find out what happened to Teddy.

As I have told you, he thought he surely knew the way to the place
where Jake and Sam were working on the new lumber chute. He had been
there before once or twice. But as he walked along and along the path
he saw it growing fainter and fainter, showing that it was not much
used.

And then Teddy knew that he was lost!

But he was a brave little fellow, and, brushing his curly hair back
from his eyes, he picked up a stout stick for a club and walked on.

“I guess I’d better go back home,” he said to himself.

He turned about, and thought he started straight back over the way he
came. But if you have ever been in the deep woods, you know how much
one tree looks like another and that all the bushes seem the same. So
Teddy could not tell when he had turned completely around to go back.

As a matter of fact, he turned only partly around and, instead of
heading for the bungalow, he was wandering away from it almost as much
as when he started straight away to get the lumbermen.

For a time Teddy tramped on, quite sure he was going back to the
bungalow. He was a little disappointed that he had not been able to
find the lumbermen to tell them to go back and help at the sawmill.

“I guess Mr. Everett will think I’m not much good,” mused Ted. “If I
couldn’t do a little errand like that he won’t want me to do things for
him again. It’s too bad! But I didn’t think it was so easy to get lost
in the woods.”

Teddy was more lost than he realized, and he became aware of this when
he saw that it was growing dusky. The sun was beginning to set, and
though it was still light out in the open, in the fields and meadows,
the woods had already begun to darken, as the dying rays of the sun
could not get between the trees.

After having walked, as he thought, many miles, though it was very
likely not more than two, Teddy became very tired and a little
frightened.

Then he happened to think of something an older boy had told him to do
when lost in the woods.

“When you think you’re lost in the woods, don’t rush about, but sit
down and wait for a while. Help may come. And, anyhow, sit down for a
while until you get quiet and aren’t so excited. You can’t think well
when you’re excited.”

And Teddy was certainly excited now. I suppose you would have been
that way yourself if you were lost and alone in the woods as was the
Curlytop boy.

“I’ll sit down and think!” decided Teddy.

He did this, waiting and hoping that some one might happen along to
lead him back to camp, which he could not find by himself. But as he
sat there and the shadows grew longer, he began to worry and to think
that he had better be doing something for himself.

“I’ll call,” decided Teddy, and he sent out loud shouts.

Now, as it happened, he did not begin to yell for help until after Jake
and Sam had left their working place in the woods and were on their way
home. Otherwise the lumbermen might have heard the boy’s cries. But
chance so had it that when he was calling they were tramping through
the underbrush too far away to hear him.

Also Teddy’s shouts did not echo through the woods at the time the
searching parties started out, for not until Jake and Sam reached camp
did it become known that the Curlytop lad was lost.

“Help! Help! Help!”

Again and again Teddy cried this, but the only answers were the echoes
from the woods and hills that now were in deeper shadows.

“Oh, dear!” thought the boy. “Sitting still and shouting isn’t going to
do any good. I’m going to walk along.”

And this is where Teddy made a mistake. He should have remained in one
place, and then the searchers who soon started out might have found
him. But when he walked on again, he wandered farther and farther away
from them.

Teddy was in a sore plight. He was tired and hungry and lost. That was
too much for one small boy. Any one of them was trouble enough all
alone, but when the three came together--well, it was terrible, so
Teddy thought, and I believe you will agree with him.

Still he was not going to give up, sit down, and cry about it. As long
as there was a little light in the woods he would tramp on, hoping he
might, somehow, wander back to the bungalow.

But as it grew darker and darker, and Teddy thought he saw strange
sights and shadows in the woods, his heart beat very fast. Once he
thought he saw a great bear thrusting out a hairy paw toward him, and
he started to run. But he turned back in time to see that it was only a
waving tree branch.

“I have got to get home! I just have to!” half-sobbed Teddy. On he ran
again. It was so dark now that he could not see the ground very well,
and his foot caught in a trailing vine, tripping him so that he fell.

“Oh, dear!” he cried.

But the forest ground was covered with a thick coating of fallen leaves
of other years, and these made a soft cushion on which he had fallen.

Up he rose again, more desperate than before. He clenched his hands
tightly, his hunger now forgotten and his only idea being to rush away
out of the darkness, back to the light and cheerfulness of the bungalow.

For a moment Teddy was dazed. Then, as his mind cleared, he looked
through the trees and caught a glimpse of a light. At first he thought
it was a campfire, but soon saw it was only the last fading rays of
the red sunset.

“I’ll go that way--toward the sun,” decided Teddy.

On and on he stumbled. Once, before he knew it, he had walked into a
swampy place in the woods, and his feet got wet. But this was a small
matter now. His heart thumped under his little jacket, and he had to
close his teeth hard to keep from screaming out.

“But I mustn’t be a coward! I mustn’t be a coward!” thought Teddy.

On and on he went. The red sunset died away. The woods were now very
dark.

Suddenly, through the gloom, came a strange cry. It was a high, shrill
wail, and at first Teddy thought some one had called to him.

“Here I am! Here I am!” he answered.

Then, as the strange, wailing cry sounded again, Teddy knew it was no
person calling.

It was some animal!




CHAPTER XV

THE LONELY CABIN


Teddy Martin was as brave as any boy of his age could be. But he was
like nearly all other boys. When he heard or saw something about which
he did not know he became alarmed.

Perhaps if he had seen an elephant or a tiger really coming toward him
in the woods, he might not have been half as frightened as he was at
that strange cry from some unknown animal. For seeing a lion, a tiger,
or an elephant lets you know at once what you have to expect. And it
may be that by running, dodging and hiding you can get away from the
beasts.

“What is it that’s howling at me?” thought Ted.

He did not know, and there was none present to tell him.

That was the worst of it--not knowing what animal was trailing after
him--stalking him up in the trees, maybe--following him!

Teddy had stopped after calling out that he was there, thinking it was
some person who had been sent to rescue him. But after a moment, when
he knew that it was some animal, the boy prepared to run on again.
Though where he would go in the darkness, and how he could save himself
from the beast, he did not know.

“But I’m not going to stay here to be jumped on and clawed and bitten!”
thought the Curlytop lad.

There flashed through his mind all the stories he had ever read or
heard about wild beasts in the woods at night. For a few seconds Ted
thought the worst--that it might be a lion or a tiger.

Then his better sense came to his aid.

“How silly I am!” he exclaimed to himself, as he started off again in
the darkness. “Of course there aren’t any lions or tigers here. They
live only in hot countries in the jungle. The only wild animals around
here that might hurt me are bears, foxes and--bobcats!”

Teddy almost forgot about this last-named beast. But he had heard
the lumbermen talking about it only the other day. Bears, the
wood-choppers had said, were very scarce and hard even for a hunter to
find, so Ted knew he need not worry about them. He, himself, had seen
a fox, and had noted how the brown creature with the big tail had so
quickly run away.

“A fox won’t fight unless you corner him,” thought Teddy; “and I’m not
going to corner this one! Besides, a fox doesn’t climb a tree, and this
animal is up in the trees overhead.”

He knew this, because he had heard the branches rustling as the animal
sent out its strange cry.

There was only one thing left that the beast could be.

“It’s a bobcat!” whispered Ted to himself.

And as he heard again the strange, wailing cry of the beast, he felt
sure he had guessed right.

“They claw terrible, and bite!” thought Ted, with a shiver of fear, for
he had heard the lumbermen talking about the bobcat, or lynx, which is
another name for it. “But maybe it can’t find me,” thought the Curlytop
boy hopefully.

He wished that it was daylight, and then he wished that he had his
electric pocket flash lamp with him, so that he might see which way to
go. But he had to make the best of it, and so he slipped along as well
as he could, gliding amid the trees and bushes of the dark forest.

He bumped into stumps and the trunks of trees. His feet became
entangled in vines and, tripping, he fell. He stepped into mud puddles
of cold water. All in all, poor Ted was quite miserable.

Now and then he heard a rustling in the tree branches overhead, and he
felt sure the bobcat was following him, waiting for a chance to drop
down on him and bite or scratch.

“I’m going to yell!” decided Teddy. “Maybe that will scare that bobcat.”

And yell he did as loudly as he could. He not only wanted to scare away
the bobcat, if one was really chasing him in the tree tops, but Ted
also wanted to let those who might be searching for him, know where he
was.

Again and again Ted cried, sending his ringing voice out in the
darkness of the forest.

Had those who were searching for him only been near enough they would
surely have heard him and come to his rescue. There were two rescue
parties out, as I have told you. Mr. Martin led one and Tod Everett,
the foreman of the lumber gang, led the other.

Mrs. Martin remained at home in the bungalow with Janet, Trouble and
Lucy. They were much frightened and worried, and more than once Janet
would listen for any sound outside the cabin and then she would ask:

“Do you think they’ll find Teddy, Mother?”

“Of course they will,” would be the answer.

“When?” Janet would ask.

“Oh, soon now,” Mrs. Martin would reply. But as the hours passed and
the rescuers did not come back with the missing little boy, Mrs. Martin
became more and more worried, though she did not say so.

“Po’ honey lamb!” mused Lucy, as she rocked Trouble to and fro to keep
him asleep, for he was restless. “I done wisht he’d come!”

“So do I,” murmured Janet. And then her mother said she had better go
to bed and rest.

“But I’ll not sleep,” Janet answered. “I’m going to stay awake all
night--or until Teddy comes home.”

However, even worry about her beloved brother could not long keep Janet
awake, and soon her eyes were closed, as were Trouble’s. Then Mrs.
Martin and Lucy sat up, listening and hoping.

Mr. Martin had been very sure he or the other searchers would soon find
Teddy. He thought the boy had merely taken the wrong path through the
woods and was wandering about, not far from the bungalow.

But the truth of it was that Teddy had gone farther than even he
realized, and much farther than his father thought a small boy could
walk in the time he was gone.

“Another thing that’s against us,” said one of the lumbermen, “is that
it’s so dark. There’s any number of little hollows and ravines that the
boy could be in and we’d miss him even in daylight. And after dark it’s
harder yet.”

“I know it is,” said Mr. Martin. “But I think he’ll hear us shouting
and answer us. Besides the moon will be up pretty soon, and it won’t
be so dark.”

But as for the shouts, Ted did not hear those of the rescuers, and they
did not hear his cries as he yelled to drive away the bobcat, if such
it was that was trailing him. So the search was kept up.

As for Ted, he wandered on and on, really going farther away from the
bungalow and his friends instead of toward them.

The boy listened after he had shouted to drive away, as he hoped, the
strange wailing beast. Then, as he did not hear any sound in the tree
tops and that strange cry did not again make him shiver, he took heart.

“I guess I’ve scared him away,” thought Teddy.

He started off again in the darkness as best he could. But he had not
taken many steps before that same cry welled forth again, sending the
shivers up and down poor Ted’s back.

“You old beast!” he cried. “Why don’t you jump down and be done with
it! I’ll hit you with a club if you do!”

Ted firmly grasped the piece of tree branch he had picked up and
waited. He stood under a tree, and he thought if the bobcat did leap
down the tree would be a good thing to dodge behind.

Then, just as Mr. Martin had told those in his party would happen,
the moon rose. Or, rather, it came out from behind some clouds that,
earlier in the evening, had hidden the silver disk. The woods were now
much lighter, and for this Ted was glad, even though the moon did cast
strange shadows.

Suddenly, as he looked up into the tree from which the strange animal
seemed last to have cried, Ted saw two green and gleaming eyes. The
moon shone on them.

And then a voice seemed to call:

“Who! Who! Whoo-oo-oo!”

Instantly Ted burst into a laugh.

“Why, it’s only an owl!” he told himself. “It was an owl that was
following me through the woods. But I didn’t know owls cried like a
bobcat. I thought they only made a sound like just now--‘who!’ I’m glad
it’s only an owl!”

The owl, for such it was, flew away. Ted saw it go, but he could not
hear the flapping wings, for an owl flies on silent pinions, its wings
being covered with such soft feathers as to make scarcely a sound.
In this way an owl can fly close to the creature it wishes to catch
without being heard.

Ted laughed again as the owl hooted and vanished in the night. The boy
felt better now, and he was beginning to wonder if he would have to
spend the night alone in the forest when, suddenly, that same strange
cry sounded again. This time so near at hand--in a tree directly over
Teddy’s head--that the boy jumped.

“It wasn’t the owl after all!” he thought. “It must be the bobcat still
after me!”

There was a rustling in the leaves of the tree, and Ted dodged behind
the trunk of the one he had picked out as a refuge. Then as the moon
became a bit brighter, for more clouds passed from it, the boy caught
sight of two other eyes, gleaming red and green as they reflected the
shine of the moon.

“He’s looking right at me!” thought Ted, for, indeed, the eyes seemed
to stare at him. “Come on down here and I’ll hit you with this club!”
cried the boy boldly.

However the bobcat--and by a glimpse he had of the beast Ted was sure
it was a lynx--did not accept the invitation to come down and be
clubbed. The animal snarled again and moved out on the limb over Ted’s
head so the boy had a good view of it. Then he saw more clearly what it
was--an animal like a cat, only three times as large, and with curious
tufts of fur on its ears. The lynx is about the only animal that has
ear tassels.

Suddenly Ted decided on a bold move. If the bobcat would not come down
to be clubbed, the boy would not exactly climb up the tree to hit
it--that would be dangerous indeed--but Ted could throw his club at the
beast.

“That’s what I’ll do!” decided the boy.

Ted was a good ball player for a boy of his age, and could throw
straight. He had often gone after chestnuts in the woods, and had
thrown clubs up into the trees to bring down a shower of brown nuts.

Now he stepped back until he saw that he had a clear aim for the bobcat
on a limb out over his head. Ted began to swing his club back and forth.

“I’ve thrown a club farther than this!” thought Ted.

He drew back his arm and let fly the heavy piece of wood. It went
straight for the bobcat, and, somewhat to Ted’s surprise, it struck
the animal on the nose, its most tender spot.

Instantly it felt the blow of the club on its nose, the lynx sent out
a loud howl. Then it snarled and began tearing at the branch with its
sharp claws, so that it sent down a shower of bark on Ted.

Then, with another howl, as it rubbed its sore nose between its paws,
the lynx turned as if to run down the tree trunk.

“He’s coming after me!” thought Ted. “I’ve made him good and mad and
he’s coming after me. I’d better run!”

Before this the boy had “invited” the lynx to come down and be clubbed.
But now that he actually saw the beast coming after him, as he thought,
Ted could not stand it. Turning, he ran away.

The moon now gave better light than at first, and Ted could see to keep
out of the way of trees and bushes. Thus he made better speed.

On and on he ran, not stopping to listen to learn if the lynx were
coming after him. He stepped into puddles, but his feet were wet
anyhow, and he no longer minded this. Suddenly he saw before him a well
made path through the trees--a path that seemed to have been often
used.

“Maybe this is the way home!” thought Ted. “I hope it is!”

He paused for a moment before turning into this path. He listened. No
longer did he hear the rustling in the tree branches overhead, showing
that the lynx was following him. Nor did he hear that strange, wailing
cry.

“Maybe I drove him away when I hit him on the nose!” thought Ted.

He started down the path, running as fast as he could. Then, a little
later, he saw that it did not lead to the bungalow at Mount Major.
Instead it led to a little clearing, and in the midst of this place,
where the trees were cut down, stood a lonely cabin.

Who lived there? Did anyone? Would it be best for Ted to knock and ask
to be taken in for the night?




CHAPTER XVI

THE TRICK CROW


While Ted was standing on the edge of the clearing looking at the light
gleaming from the lonely cabin and wondering whether or not he should
go up to it and ask for shelter, the search for him was going on in
another part of the woods.

As it grew darker and darker and got later and later, even Mr. Martin
began to give up hope of finding Ted that night. And some of the men in
the party led by the foreman, Tod Everett, spoke out and said:

“There’s no use going on any farther. The boy’s probably asleep in some
hollow tree or covered with leaves to keep himself warm in some ravine.
We might as well give up until daylight.”

But the foreman would not give up unless Mr. Martin asked him to, and
so he decided to circle around and meet the boy’s father.

The two searching parties had separated, one going one way and one
another, and at times they were quite far apart. But as the night grew
darker the two bands of men drew near together until at last Tod was
able to call to Mr. Martin, asking:

“What do you say? Shall we keep on?”

Ted’s father considered. He knew that the men were tired, and yet he
did not want to go back to the bungalow and have his wife meet him to
ask:

“Didn’t you find him?”

It would be better to keep on searching even all night.

But one of the lumbermen had an idea which in the end turned out to be
a very good one.

“Why not go back to the bungalow and see if there is any news?” he
suggested.

“What do you mean--news?” asked the foreman.

“I mean maybe the boy has wandered back there himself, or maybe some
one has telephoned in that they have him at their farm. There’s lots
of telephones around this part of the country. Nearly every farmer has
one, and I know two trappers who have telephones and wireless sets,
too. So maybe some of them have picked up Ted, or he may have wandered
to their shacks. And there’s a telephone in the store. I guess Ted
could tell who he was and where he was from.”

“Yes, he could do that!” exclaimed Mr. Martin. “That’s a good plan,
Jake. We’ll go back and see if there is any news. As you say, Ted may
be back there now, or some one may have telephoned in.”

Now we shall see what Ted himself did. For a few moments he stood
staring at the lonely cabin from which gleamed a cheerful light. The
boy listened.

No longer did the owl hoot. No longer did he hear the weird cry of
the bobcat or the noise made as the creature crept along in the tree
tops. And from the cabin came not a sound at first. There was only the
cheerful light.

Then suddenly from a window of the cabin--a window that was open, as
Ted could tell by the flapping curtain--there sounded a voice speaking.
And to Ted’s amazement the voice said in rather strange, loud tones:

“This is station Q Q Z. The next number on our radio program will be
selections by the Harmony Band. Just a moment please!”

Ted could scarcely believe his ears. One moment to be hooted at by an
owl and chased by a bobcat in the midst of dark and lonesome woods.
The next minute to come upon a lighted cabin and hear from it the loud
speaker of a wireless outfit!

For it was radio music that a moment later sounded on Ted’s ear--sweet
melodious strains floating out into the darkness, brought to that
lonely cabin by the mysterious electric waves and sent out by means of
light bulbs and a loud speaker.

It was wonderful!

For a moment Ted stood there listening. He knew the Harmony Band. Many
a time he had listened to it over his father’s wireless set at home
when the musical organization played at the Q Q Z station.

“Hurray!” cried Ted aloud, as the music welled out on the night. “I’m
safe now!”

Quickly he hurried across the clearing toward the lighted cabin. The
music was louder and plainer as he drew near. It was even so loud that
when he knocked on the door his tapping was not heard. Realizing this,
and not wanting to wait until the music stopped, Ted opened the door
and walked in.

He found himself within a well-furnished bungalow, somewhat like the
one at Mount Major, only not so large. In the main room was a man and
his wife and a boy about Ted’s age. And this boy was leaning over the
radio instrument set in one corner on a table, making some adjustments
to it.

“Tune it down a little, so it isn’t so loud,” said the boy’s mother, as
Ted entered.

As the boy turned the knob of the variable condenser, softening the
musical sounds from the black mouth of the loud-speaker horn, they all
turned and looked at Ted.

He met their gaze smiling.

“Hello!” exclaimed the man, in some surprise, though his voice was
friendly.

“How’d you get in?” asked the boy at the radio instrument. Then he
turned the switch and cut off the battery power from one of the lights
so that the music no longer sounded.

“I came--I came in the door,” said Ted. “I knocked, but I guess you
didn’t hear me ’cause the music was going.” And then, like the “radio
bug” he was fast becoming, Ted eagerly asked:

“Do you get any other stations besides Q Q Z?”

“Sure I do!” answered the other boy, and in a moment, though hardly
a dozen words had been spoken, the two lads were firm friends--just
because of their interest in radio.

“We have a set at home,” went on Ted, “but we haven’t any loud speaker
yet. I want dad to get one.”

“Do you live around here?” asked the woman.

“I don’t remember you,” said the man.

“I’m over at Mount Major. My father has charge of the store at the
sawmill,” explained Ted.

“Oh, Tod Everett’s outfit!” exclaimed the man.

“Yes, he’s the foreman,” went on Ted. “I’m lost.”

“Lost!” cried the other boy.

“Yes. I started out this afternoon to bring back two of the men who
were building a lumber chute. There was an accident at the mill and Mr.
Everett needed all the hands to fix it. But I couldn’t find Jake and
Sam and I got lost, and a bobcat chased me, but I hit him on the nose
with a club and----”

“You don’t mean to say you hit a bobcat with a club!” exclaimed the
woman.

“Well, I did. But I guess it was sort of an accident,” admitted Ted.

“And you’ve been lost since early afternoon!” cried the boy. “You must
be terribly hungry!”

“I am,” confessed Ted.

“Oh, you poor boy!” murmured the woman. “We’ve had supper, but I can
get you something. Why, your folks must be worried to death about you.”

“I guess they are,” admitted Ted. “’Course, I’ve been lost before. But
not like this. If I could send word to the bungalow they’d know I am
all right now. But you can’t send word over your wireless,” he added to
the boy. “You only have a receiving set, haven’t you?”

“That’s all. I’m not allowed to send.”

“But we can telephone in the regular way,” said the man. “Is there a
telephone in your place?” he asked.

“There is in the store,” Ted answered.

“I’ll call up your family and let ’em know you’re all right,” the man
offered. “Now if you go with my wife she’ll get you something to eat,”
he said.

You may be sure Ted was only too glad to go. Into the kitchen, while
food was being set out, the boy came from the sitting room to help his
mother. Ted learned that the family was named Brixton, and that the boy
was called Harry.

Now that he was taken in and cared for, Ted began to know just how
hungry he was, and he was so busy putting the food in the place where
it ought to go--in his mouth and stomach--that he hardly heard Mr.
Brixton telephoning to the store.

It did not take long to be connected with Mount Major, and Mrs. Martin
answered the telephone, for her husband and the men had not yet gotten
back.

The way of it was this. Mrs. Martin was sitting out in front of the
bungalow with Lucy, for the night was warm. Janet and Trouble were in
bed asleep, and the faithful colored maid was trying to comfort Mrs.
Martin, telling her that Teddy would surely be found soon.

Then the telephone in the store rang very hard. There was no one to
answer it, for the place was closed at night. However, Mrs. Martin
heard the jingling bell.

“Maybe that means something,” she said. “I’ll answer it.”

And you can imagine how happy she was when Mr. Brixton’s voice sounded
over the wire, telling her the lost boy had been found and was, even
then, in his cabin eating a late supper.

“Oh, are you sure it’s my Teddy?” asked the now happy mother.

“Of course I am,” answered Mr. Brixton. “I’ll let him talk to you
himself.”

And soon Teddy and his mother were exchanging joyful words. Briefly
Teddy told what had happened to him. Then Mr. Brixton, who had come to
live in the cabin in the wood for his summer vacation, informed Mrs.
Martin just how his place could be reached by the road.

“My husband and all the men are out in the woods now looking for
Teddy,” said Mrs. Martin. “I can’t drive the auto over, as I don’t want
to leave my other two children here. But as soon as my husband comes
back I’ll send him after Teddy.”

“No hurry at all,” said Mr. Brixton, with a laugh. “We’ll be glad to
keep him all night.”

Ted was happy now. He was safe with his new friends, he had had a good
supper, and his mother, at least, knew where he was. Now he could
listen to the wireless music with a glad heart.

And that is what he and Harry did. When the second supper had been
cleared away--though, truth to tell Ted did not leave much in the way
of food on the table--the two boys “fussed” over the radio instrument,
“picking up” distant stations.

It was not long after Mrs. Martin had received the joyful news of Ted’s
safety over the telephone that her husband and the other searchers came
back to Mount Major. The first thing Mr. Martin asked was:

“Any news?”

“The very best!” cried his wife, happily. “Teddy’s in the woods cabin
of Mr. Brixton.”

“I know where his place is!” said Tod Everett. “My, but I’m glad that
boy’s found!”

“So am I,” murmured Mr. Martin, and all the lumbermen said the same
thing.

“I didn’t want to speak about it before,” went on the foreman to Mr.
Martin. “But there are wildcats in the woods--lynx, you know. I was
afraid some of them might have scared the boy.”

“I hope they didn’t,” replied the father.

But if Ted had not exactly been frightened by the bobcat, he was so
near to it that, as Tod Everett said later, “they wa’n’t no fun in it!”

In a short time Mr. Martin and the foreman were on their way in the
automobile to Mr. Brixton’s cabin, and there Ted was found, joyfully
listening to music caught by the wireless instrument which worked just
as well, and perhaps better, in the lonely woods than it does in your
city home, if you live in the city.

“Well, Ted, you had quite an adventure!” his father greeted him.

“I had a lot of ’em!” replied Ted. Then he told some of the things that
had happened to him, while the others wondered at his pluck and spirit.

Thanking the kind Brixton family for their care of Ted, Mr. Martin was
soon on his homeward way with the lost boy, and a little later there
was a joyful reunion in the bungalow at Mount Major.

Janet awakened, having had a bad dream, and her first question was a
sleepy inquiry if her brother had come home.

“Yes, dear, he’s here, and safe,” whispered her mother.

Then Janet turned over with a contented sigh and went sound asleep
again. Trouble did not awaken, and it was not until morning that he
knew the whole story of Ted being lost and found.

You may be sure Ted was warned not to get lost again, and of course he
said he would not. The foreman could not forgive himself for having let
the Curlytop boy go on the errand to summon the two men from the log
chute.

“Oh, that was all right,” said Mr. Martin. “Ted was just as likely to
have gotten lost playing out in the woods.”

But Ted promised to be more careful after this.

Trouble was soon himself again after his little illness, and as a sort
of celebration he and the Curlytops went one day for another picnic in
the woods, taking their lunch with them. They were warned not to, and
promised they wouldn’t, go far away.

Ted and Janet were making a playhouse near an old stump, and Trouble
had wandered off a short distance to look for pretty stones. Suddenly
the little fellow came toddling back in a hurry, to cry:

“Somebody’s knockin’!”

“Knocking? What do you mean, Trouble?” asked Ted.

“Listen!” ordered William, holding up one hand as he had seen his
mother do.

To the ears of Ted and Janet came a rat-at-at-tat-tat! sound.

“Hear ’em knockin!” whispered Trouble.

“I know what that is,” declared Ted. “It’s a woodpecker picking holes
in a tree so he can get the worms and bugs. It’s a woodpecker knocking,
that’s what it is.”

“Does he want to come into our playhouse?” asked Trouble.

“No, I don’t think so,” answered Janet. She looked up in the trees
overhead, to see if she could find the tapping woodpecker, then
suddenly, as she caught sight of another bird, she exclaimed:

“Look, Ted! The tame crow! There’s Mr. Jenk’s lame, trick crow!”




CHAPTER XVII

THE SAWDUST FIRE


Teddy was piling some sticks up against the stump, to make it look more
like a playhouse. But as he heard his sister call out about the lame,
tame crow, the Curlytop boy dropped the sticks and cried:

“Where is he? Show him to me and I’ll catch him and get the ten
dollars. I’ll give you half! Where is he, Janet?”

“Up there!” and his sister pointed amid the trees.

Ted came and stood beside her until he could look up along her
outstretched arm, hand and finger.

“What you playin’?” asked Trouble, who had come back, tired of looking
for pretty stones. “I wants play game!”

“This isn’t any game,” explained Janet. “I’m showing Teddy where Mr.
Jenk’s crow is--the lame, tame crow. Do you see him, Ted?” she asked.

[Illustration: AN INSTANT LATER HE SPREAD OUT HIS WINGS AND SOARED AWAY.

  “The Curlytops in the Woods.”      Page 199]

“Yes, I see a crow,” he answered a moment later. “But how do you know
he is Mr. Jenk’s?”

“Because! Look how he stands!” answered Janet.

As she spoke the woodpecker tapped again.

Tap! Tap! Tappity-tap-tap! Rat-a-tat! went the hard bill of the
woodpecker on the hollow limb of a tree. It was like a distant little
drum.

And as surely as Ted and Janet looked, to say nothing of Trouble
peering up into the trees--as surely as the children looked, when the
sound of the woodpecker’s bill echoed through the woods, the crow stood
on one leg. At least it seemed so to the children.

“Look! Look!” cried Janet. “He’s standing on one leg just like Mr.
Jenk’s crow used to do!”

“And he has the other leg sticking out,” added Ted. “Janet, I believe
this is the tame crow!” he exclaimed. “But how did it ever get away up
here in the woods?”

“I don’t know,” answered his sister.

The woodpecker kept on tapping, for that was his way of getting
something to eat--bugs and worms that he pulled out of holes he
drilled in the rotten wood of the tree. The woodpecker cared nothing
about the crow.

And as the woodpecker tapped the crow still stood on one leg, with the
other, as nearly as the children could see, stuck out to one side,
stiff and straight.

“That surely is Mr. Jenk’s crow!” declared Janet.

“If he’d only pop like a cork coming from a bottle we’d be certain,”
said Teddy. “Then I’d get him.”

“How can you get him?” Janet wanted to know.

“I’ll climb the tree!” cried Teddy. “I can do it!”

He started toward the tree, but just then Janet cried:

“Look! I think he’s going to pop!” She meant that the crow might be
going to imitate the pulling of a cork from a bottle. “He’s got his
mouth open,” went on Janet.

Teddy, too, saw this, and he was beginning to make very sure that it
was Mr. Jenk’s crow when suddenly, as the black bird had his mouth
open, there sounded at some distance in the woods the cry of:

“Caw! Caw! Caw!”

It was another crow hoarsely calling, and as the noise came to the crow
that was standing on one leg, he gave forth an answering:

“Caw! Caw! Caw!”

“Oh, dear!” cried Janet as she heard this. “He was just going to pop
the cork when that other crow hollered and made him holler. But I’m
sure it was Mr. Jenk’s lame, tame crow, Ted.”

“I think so, too. Anyhow, I’ll go up the tree and get him!”

Why Teddy thought he could climb a tree and catch the crow I can’t tell
you. Certainly if the boy had been a bit older, or if he had stopped to
think, he would have known that a bird that can fly and hop cannot be
caught by some one climbing a tree after it.

And that’s just what happened to Teddy. No sooner did he start to climb
the tree than again the cawing sounded distantly in the woods. It was
answered by the crow who was still standing on one leg. And then this
black bird that the Curlytops were watching suddenly put both claws
down on the limb.

An instant later he spread out his wings and soared away, flying off
through the trees.

“Oh, he’s gone!” sighed Janet.

“Maybe I can watch where he goes!” cried her brother.

He ran forward through the trees, but a crow can fly much faster than
a small boy can run--or even a large boy for that matter--and soon the
black bird was lost to sight.

“Oh, well, maybe he’ll come back,” said Janet, trying to comfort her
brother.

“I hope he does,” said Teddy. “I’d like to get that ten dollars. I’m
sure it was Mr. Jenk’s crow.”

But when they told their father and mother about it Mr. and Mrs. Martin
only laughed.

“It couldn’t be the same crow that got away from our neighbor, Mr.
Jenk,” Mr. Martin said. “I don’t believe it would fly up this far,
though of course a crow that wasn’t lame could fly many miles.”

“But he stood on one leg, just like Mr. Jenk’s tame crow used to when
we snapped our fingers, or made a tapping sound,” explained Ted.

“Yes, birds often stand on one leg,” said his father. “And so do
chickens. Lots of times I’ve seen one of our roosters stand on one leg
with the other drawn up under his feathers to keep warm.”

“Well, maybe it wasn’t Mr. Jenk’s crow, but it looked like him and it
acted like him,” decided Janet.

However, there was no help for it. The crow, whatever crow it might be,
had flown away and might never be seen again. The Curlytops were a bit
sad and disappointed for a while, but soon got over this feeling as
there were so many things to do in the woods and so much fun to have in
the lumber camp.

Ted had gotten all over his scare of being lost in the woods and of
being followed by the bobcat. In fact he wanted to start out to try to
hunt the lynx.

“We could easy catch him,” he said to his father.

“I hardly think so,” said Mr. Martin, with a smile. “A lynx is almost
as shy as a fox unless he is trailing some animal he isn’t afraid of.”

“But he followed me,” said Teddy.

“Well, it just wanted to see who you were,” said the boy’s father. “I
don’t believe the lynx would have jumped down on you to scratch or
bite you. It was just curious.”

Some of the lumbermen said the same thing, adding that not unless they
were cornered would a bobcat attack a man. So Ted was really not in as
much danger as he had tried to think he was. Still it was scary enough
for the little chap.

Work at the lumber camp went on from day to day. Dozens of great trees
were chopped down to be sawed up into boards. Quite a pile of sawdust
was mounting near the mill now, and the children loved to play in this.
They would climb to a point near the top of the pile. Then they would
leap into it near the bottom and they could not get hurt because the
sawdust was so soft.

However, it got into their shoes, so most of the time they played in
the sawdust bare-footed. But it also got down inside their clothes and
scratched them; so that every time they played in the sawdust pile they
had to go in and take off their clothes, shaking them out to get rid of
the ticklish, powdered wood particles. Still they thought this was part
of the fun.

Once, when Trouble climbed to a higher point for the jumping off place
than he had ever before been allowed to reach, and when he had jumped
into the sawdust, Ted and Janet couldn’t find him.

“Trouble! Trouble! Where are you?” cried Janet, looking down the
sawdust slope for a sight of her small brother.

There was no answer and not a sign of him.

“Oh, Ted!” called Janet. “Trouble’s gone!”

“He’s down in the sawdust!” Ted answered. “He must have jumped into a
hole and he’s covered up. We’ll have to dig him out!”

They did not wait to call or run for help, but, with their hands,
began digging in the soft and fluffy pile. In a few seconds they had
uncovered Trouble’s head. He was all right, except that he was rather
badly frightened. As Teddy had explained, Trouble had sunk down in a
soft part of the sawdust pile, and more of the dust sliding down had
covered him up.

“Are you hurt, Trouble?” asked Janet.

“Me ’ike it,” he answered, with a laugh. “I hab ’ots ob fun!”

Back he climbed to jump off again, but Ted would not let him leap from
so great a height.

“If we hadn’t been here you might have been buried in the sawdust all
night,” warned Teddy.

“It be nice an’ warm in there--nice as my bed!” declared Trouble. And
that is all concerning the danger they could impress on him.

The sawdust pile continued to be a place of much fun for the Curlytops.
Sometimes they would start at the top and slide to the bottom of the
big heap, getting their curly hair full of the dust, to the despair of
their mother and Lucy.

“But chilluns suah hab got to play!” chuckled the black maid, as she
used the brush.

And play the Curlytops did!

Mr. Martin did not want to spend too much time in the woods, as his own
store, back at Cresco, needed attention. But there was so much to do at
Mount Major in order to get the lumber store well started and the men
who were to be left in charge needed so much advice that the father of
the Curlytops had to remain longer than at first he had intended.

However, Ted, Janet and Trouble did not mind, as they thought there was
no finer place in all the world than the woods where they were camping.
And as the children liked it and as it was doing them good to be out in
the woods and the fresh air, Mrs. Martin was willing to stay.

Mr. Martin had nothing to do with the cutting of the trees and the
floating of them to the mill to be cut up into lumber. But he owned
some shares in the company, which is the reason he took such an
interest in the store. He wanted to see it do well.

So the Curlytops remained in the woods, and it began to look as though
the whole summer would be spent there.

“I think it’s the best vacation we ever had,” said Ted.

“So do I,” agreed his sister.

“Certainly the children never looked better,” declared Mrs. Martin.
“I’m glad we came.”

There were so many things to watch in the lumber business that the
children never found time hanging heavy on their hands if they did
not care to play. They could visit the mill, watch great trees being
chopped down, they could see the men making up rafts in the river or
the lake and they could see the sawed boards being carted off to be
shipped on railroad trains.

“I like best to see the logs go down the chute into the river,” said
Ted to his sister, when they were talking about the different sights
around camp. “Let’s go over there now,” he suggested.

“Are you sure you won’t get lost?” asked Janet. For it was in going to
this chute before that Ted wandered off and got lost in the woods.

“Oh, I know the way now,” he said. “Come on!”

The Curlytops started, but Trouble called after them:

“I ’ants to go!”

“Shall we take him or hide?” asked Ted. Often when they did not want
William to tag after them, the brother and sister would hide. After
Trouble had tearfully searched for them, not finding them, he would go
to his mother to be comforted. In this way Ted and Janet would find a
chance to slip off where they wanted to go.

“Oh, let’s take him along--don’t hide from him,” said Janet, who had a
soft spot in her heart for Trouble.

“Come on then,” invited Ted.

Soon the three children were wandering through the woods on the way to
the lumber chute. The path was plain now, being much worn by constant
use, and they could not get lost. So their mother was not worried about
their trip, only warning them to be careful of Trouble.

“We will,” promised Janet.

Well, of course she meant to be, and so did Ted. But you never could
tell what Trouble would do.

When the children reached the place they found that the men were away.
The choppers had gone farther back in the woods to cut down more trees,
having sent down the chute all that were near it.

That is, all the logs had been sent down but one, and this had stuck in
the chute near the top, being balanced like a teeter-totter, or seesaw,
on the very edge of the chute.

The log was perfectly balanced at the middle, half of it hanging down
the chute and the other half extending over the end where the men stood
to start the logs on their trip to the river, a hundred feet or more
below.

Before Ted or Janet could stop him, Trouble had climbed up on the
chute and had gotten astride the log. Then he found that it moved up
and down, like a seesaw.

“Trouble hab fine ride!” he said.

He wiggled himself until he actually had the log moving up and down,
with him on it. A moment later the log might have become unbalanced and
have gone down the chute, taking Trouble with it to the river below.
Ted saw the danger at once, and in an instant sprang and pulled his
little brother from the log.

“Trouble, you shouldn’t do that!” he cried.

“I want wide!” protested the little fellow.

“Yes, you’d have one ride too many if you rolled down the chute into
the river with the log,” said Ted.

“Hi there! Keep away from that chute!” shouted some of the men, coming
back just then with teams that had hauled more logs to be slid down.
“Keep away!”

“I am,” Ted answered. “I was just taking Trouble away!”

And, for his own good, so he would not again do anything so dangerous,
the men scolded Trouble and made him cry. Then he promised not to climb
up on the chute again.

It was better to have Trouble crying unhurt than to have him crying
after an accident. Ted and Janet knew this.

For a time they watched the men rolling the logs into the chute and saw
them go pitching to the river far below. Then, having had enough of
this fun, the Curlytops and Trouble wandered back through the forest to
the bungalow.

As they neared it they saw some clouds of smoke floating over the trees.

“Must be running the sawmill engine extra fast,” said Ted.

“Don’t you smell something burning?” asked Janet.

Ted sniffed the air and shook his head to say that he smelled nothing.

“Well, I do!” cried Janet. She ran on a little farther, and then she
saw what it was.

“Ted! Ted!” she shouted. “The big sawdust pile is on fire!”




CHAPTER XVIII

TROUBLE HAS A RIDE


For a moment or two Teddy thought his sister was “pretending,” as she
often did, or that she was “fooling” him. But she seemed so much in
earnest as he looked at her that he could not but believe what she said
was true. Still he asked:

“Honest, is it burning?”

“Cross my heart it is!” answered Janet, this being the strongest way
she had of letting her brother know it was the truth she was speaking.
“The sawdust pile is truly on fire!”

And a moment later Ted saw it for himself. The big pile of fine, wooden
dust thrown off by the big buzz saw was blazing and smoking, and
running around it were many of the lumbermen.

“Oh, I go get my fire engine!” cried Trouble. He pulled his hand away
from Janet who was holding him.

“No, you stay right with me!” she ordered, running after him.

Trouble had a toy fire engine that sometimes squirted real water out of
a tiny hose that was fast to it. I say “sometimes,” for often the fire
engine could not be found, and, when found, it might not work because
Trouble had stuffed sand or something else in the hose. But now his
thought was of this toy as he saw the burning sawdust pile.

“I put it out wif my engine,” he said.

“You’d better keep away,” advised Ted. “This is going to be a bad
fire,” and he took hold of Trouble’s other hand to help Janet hold the
little fellow.

“Do you think it will be bad, Ted?” asked Janet, in a low voice.

“I guess so,” he answered. “Look at the smoke!”

There was a great cloud of it now swirling around the sawmill.

“Do you think our bungalow will catch?” Janet next wanted to know.

“Oh, I guess not,” said Ted hopefully. “The wind isn’t blowing that
way.”

At the time his father’s store was burning he had heard some of the
firemen speak of the wind, and Teddy remembered this now.

“I wouldn’t want our bungalow to burn,” went on Janet. “If I thought it
was I’d get out my dolls.”

“An’ I want my fire engine!” wailed Trouble. “I don’t want it to burn
up! Oh, dear!”

“It won’t burn,” Janet consoled him. “Come, we’ll go home,” she added.
“I see mother calling us.”

Mrs. Martin was in the doorway of the bungalow, beckoning to the
children. When the sawdust pile caught fire she had come to see where
they were.

“Come in out of the way!” she called, and they ran to her.

By this time a gang of the lumbermen were starting to put out the fire.
There was a short length of hose from which a small stream of water
spurted, and, for a time, Ted wondered where it came from, as he knew
there were no fire engines in the woods.

“How did it start, Mother?” asked Janet.

“By sparks from the sawmill engine smoke stack, I think,” was the
answer.

“Will it burn the store?” asked Trouble.

“I think not,” his mother replied. “And see, the men are pulling the
sawdust pile apart to get the burning side away from that which hasn’t
yet started to burn.”

The lumbermen saw that this was the only way to stop the fire from
spreading. As yet only one side of the sawdust pile was on fire.
Working on the side that was not yet blazing, with shovels and long
sticks, the men were pulling the mass of fine, wooden dust into two
parts.

It was just as if you had set fire to one side of a big pile of leaves,
and then found that you didn’t want to burn them all. If you had no
water to throw on the fire you could, with a rake, pull off to one side
in the street those leaves that had not already caught fire. Then you
could let those that had caught burn out.

That is what the lumbermen did. They separated the sawdust pile in two
parts, with a space between them. There was a little water to squirt on
the blaze, but not much. The small hose came from the water tank with
which the boiler of the sawmill engine was filled, and this stream,
with no pump behind to force it out, only dribbled a little way.

“Don’t waste that water on the fire!” cried Tod Everett.

“Why not?” asked one of the men.

“Because we haven’t enough. Use the hose to wet the ground between the
two piles, and then the fire won’t travel over.”

This was good advice, for the fire in the blazing part of the sawdust
was now so strong that it would have taken a large stream of water to
put it out. But a little water would answer to wet the space between
the two piles of dust, and this the foreman wanted done.

His men heeded what he said, and soon most of the danger was over. The
larger pile of clean sawdust had been pulled far to one side so it
would not catch, and the remainder was allowed to burn itself out.

“Couldn’t I squirt with my engine just a little bit?” begged Trouble,
when he saw that the excitement was dying out with the fire.

“No, indeed,” his mother told him. “Fires are good places to stay away
from for little boys.”

“I’m gettin’ to be a big boy. Daddy said so,” pouted Trouble.

“Well, you aren’t big enough, yet, to put out fires,” his mother
remarked, with a laugh.

But a little later the fire was so nearly out that she took the
Curlytops and Trouble close to see what damage had been done. Aside
from a few boards and the sawdust that had been burned, the loss was
small. There was no loss in the sawdust, for it was of no use. Some
farmers living near by used to come to get a load or two to fill their
ice houses, but the remainder was allowed to rot in the forest.

After the fire was over Mr. Martin and Tod Everett, the foreman, began
asking how it had started. No one had really seen the first tiny blaze
begin, but it was thought that sparks from the smoke stack of the
sawmill must have started it. This seemed most likely.

“Then you had better put a spark arrester on that stack,” said Mr.
Martin to the mill foreman.

“I will,” agreed Mr. Everett. “We don’t want any more blazes. The next
time more than sawdust might go up in smoke. I intended to have a spark
arrester on that stack all along, but there has been so much to do,
starting this new camp, that I haven’t got at it. But I surely will
make a spark arrester now.”

“Mother, how can they arrest sparks?” Trouble asked in a whisper, as he
heard this talk. “Does they have a policeman to arrest sparks?”

“If they do he’d have to travel in an airship!” laughed Ted. “For the
sparks are always flying through the air.”

“Mr. Everett didn’t mean a policeman, dear,” explained Mrs. Martin to
Trouble. “He means a spark arrester would stop the sparks from flying
from the stacks. Arrest means to stop, you know.”

“How do they stop the sparks,” asked Ted.

“Generally they put a piece of wire netting over the top of the chimney
or smokestack,” his mother answered. “The smoke can go through the
netting, but the sparks can’t. It is the big, red hot sparks, flying
from the stack, that do the damage. In most locomotives there are these
spark arresters of iron or wire netting.”

“I never saw any,” Janet said.

“That’s because they are set down inside the locomotive smokestack,”
was the answer.

The next day the children watched men fasten a heavy piece of wire
netting over the top of the sawmill smokestack.

Of all the places about the lumber camp where the Curlytops best liked
to be, the sawmill was their choice. They liked to watch the big trees
chopped or sawed down, they were fond of lingering near the log chute,
and they delighted to see the men build timber rafts on the river and
float on them.

But the sawmill they liked best of all. There was a delightfully clean
smell about it--a smell of the woods as the logs were cut into boards,
the sawdust flying about in a cloud. The saw, too, made such a funny
“zipping” sound. First there would be a low hum, as the sharp teeth
bit into the end of the log. Then the sound would become higher and
shriller as the saw turned faster and faster.

Finally there would sound a whine, like that of some animal, and the
saw would come to the end of the log with a “zip,” and then there would
be only a low, pleasant hum.

The saw was not the only piece of machinery in the mill that moved.
Another piece was the “carriage,” on which the log was carried toward
the saw. This carriage was a frame work on which the log rested as
it went forward inch by inch and foot by foot to be cut into board
lengths. Besides the carriage there was a log chain, winding around a
drum.

The logs were brought near the end of the long incline up which they
were first hauled by this chain. On the end of the chain was a great
hook. This hook would either be driven into the log by one of the men
pounding it with his axe, or the chain would be wrapped about the log
and the hook caught in the chain.

“Pull away!” the lumberman would call to the engineer. The engineer
would then shove over a handle, the chain would begin to wind itself up
around the drum and the log would be hauled up to the saw carriage.

Other men would take off the chain and roll the log in place, fastening
it on the carriage so it would not slip.

“All ready!” they would call, and the engineer would pull another
handle which would start the carriage, carrying the log, end on, toward
the big buzz saw.

At certain times, when she could be with them, the Curlytops and
Trouble were taken by their mother to the sawmill. And when there was
a long log on the carriage, just starting to be cut up, she would let
them sit down on the far end of the traveling frame and “ride.” This
was the greatest fun of all.

It was almost as good as being an engineer of the mill, Ted used to
think. As for Janet, she pretended the slow-moving log and the carriage
on which it rested was a chariot drawn by big elephants going through
the jungle.

As for Trouble, he liked to pretend that the sawmill carriage and log
was his “horsie,” and he sat astride the log and cried:

“Gid-dap! Gid-dap!”

Now, without anyone knowing it, Trouble had watched the engineer of
the mill pull the handles that started the machinery until the little
fellow, who was very smart, felt sure he could do it himself. He only
wanted the chance, and he knew he must be alone, for he felt sure his
mother would not let him go there if she saw him.

So, watching his opportunity, Trouble one day stole away to the
sawmill. As it happened, the machinery was not running, though the
power needed but to be turned on, and none of the men was in the
place. It was Trouble’s chance. He had the whole mill to himself.

“I get a wide,” he murmured.

He toddled to the handle he had so often seen the engineer pull when he
wanted to start the saw to buzzing and the carriage to rolling along.
There was a big log already in place.

Trouble pulled. At first nothing happened. He pulled again, harder than
before. There was a hissing sound, a low rumble, and the saw began
slowly to revolve. Then the carriage started gently forward.

“I do it!” cried Trouble in delight. “Now I get a wide!”

He ran to the far end of the log and carriage and sat down, pretending
that he was astride his “horse.”

Trouble was having a ride! But it was a dangerous ride!




CHAPTER XIX

THE CURLYTOPS ADRIFT


Lucky it was for Trouble that Tod Everett, the foreman, caught the
sound of the moving machinery--the creaking of the log carriage and the
buzz of the big saw that was beginning to whine as if hungry to bite
into the log on which the little boy was riding.

And as soon as Tod heard the sound of the machinery he knew something
was wrong. One reason was because it was not yet time to start. Another
reason was that the engineer of the mill was standing right beside him,
talking about a new lot of logs that had been floated down the river
that day.

The two men looked at one another as the sound came to their ears, and
the foreman cried:

“Who’s running the mill for you, Zeb?”

“Nobody,” answered Zeb White, the engineer. “She isn’t supposed to be
runnin’!”

“Well, she _is_ running!” declared Tod.

“I believe you’re right!” cried the engineer. “But who could have
started her?”

Without another word the two men ran up the little hill, for they were
at the bottom of it and away from the mill, and could not look into the
place. But when they reached the top they could hear the rattle of the
moving carriage more plainly. They could hear the whine and hum of the
big saw.

And then they saw Trouble calmly sitting astride the log, playing it
was his horse, and, all the while, drawing nearer and nearer to the
sharp-toothed saw.

“Whew!” whistled the foreman. “That kid is in mischief again!”

“Do you reckon he started my engine?” cried Zeb.

Tod Everett did not answer. He sprang to catch Trouble off the log,
pulling him to one side rather roughly in his strong arms. At the same
time the engineer ran for the handle that shut off the power. He pulled
it quickly, with all his strength, and the saw slowly ceased buzzing,
while the log on the carriage no longer moved forward.

“Say, you little tyke!” cried Tod, for he was angry, “did you start the
machinery?”

“Yes, I did start it,” answered Trouble, hardly knowing whether to
laugh or cry. “What for you take me off my horsie?” he asked.

“Horsie? Say, you don’t want to ride this dangerous kind of horse
again!” cried the engineer. “That big saw might have cut you!”

He, too, spoke sternly, and Trouble decided that all fun had gone out
of the world. He began to cry. He cried hard, too.

By this time his mother, who had missed him, had come out in search of
him. It took her only a few moments to understand what had happened.

“Trouble, you are a naughty boy!” she said.

“I not naughty!” he sobbed. “I wanted a wide--a wide on my saw horsie!”

“Yes, you were bad,” went on his mother, with a grave face. “I told you
never to come to the mill alone, and you didn’t mind. I told you never
to touch a handle or anything, and you didn’t mind. You are a bad boy!”

Trouble sobbed again, looked from one to the other of the three stern
faces in a circle about him.

“Ye--yes, I--I _is_ a bad boy!” he admitted.

“And you must be whipped,” his mother told him.

I wish I did not have to write about this part of it, but I have
undertaken to tell you all about the Curlytops and Trouble, and I must
put in the bad with the good.

Trouble was whipped, and he cried hard. But this was better than crying
after being hurt by the saw, as might have happened. And the whipping
was the best way in the world to make Trouble remember never again to
go near the machinery alone.

“I’ll see that he never does such a thing again,” said Mrs. Martin.

“And I’ll never leave the mill alone again, with the power ready to be
turned on,” said the engineer.

So it all ended more happily than it might have, if the machinery had
not been stopped in time. And though the Curlytops felt sorry for their
little brother, it was not as bad as it might have been, for which they
were very thankful.

As a further punishment, and to make him remember not to do such a
thing again, Trouble was not allowed to go with Teddy and Janet the
next time they had a picnic in the woods.

They were always having picnics--sometimes two in one day. But they
enjoyed the tramps in the forest and they had no end of fun eating the
lunches they begged from their father in the camp store.

This time they went on a picnic the day after Trouble had had his
“wide,” as he called it, on the saw carriage. That is Ted and Janet
went, and William remained at home. He wanted to go, very much, but his
mother was firm, and though the Curlytops felt sad to hear their little
brother cry to come with them, they were old enough to know it was for
his own good that he must stay at home.

“What’ll we do?” asked Ted, as he and his sister walked through the
forest. Ted very often left it to Janet to suggest some form of fun.

“Let’s look for the tame crow,” proposed the little girl. “I’d like to
find him and take him back to Mr. Jenk.”

“So would I,” agreed Ted. “We’d get a lot of money then.”

“And the crow is in these woods,” went on Janet. “I’m sure we saw him
that time the woodpecker was tapping.”

“Yes, that was Mr. Jenk’s crow all right,” said her brother. “But how
can we catch him?”

Janet thought for a minute. Then she remembered something that had
happened back home.

“Oh, Ted!” she cried. “Cheese!”

“Cheese? What do you mean?” he asked.

“Don’t you remember how fond the Jim crow was of cheese?” went on
Janet. “Whenever he used to get away Mr. Jenk would go after him,
calling and holding out a bit of cheese. And Jim would fly down to get
the cheese and Mr. Jenk would catch him.”

“Oh, yes!” cried Teddy. “And then he’d make believe pull corks. I mean
the crow would,” he added, though Janet understood.

“Let’s go back to daddy’s store and get some cheese,” proposed Janet.
She called it “daddy’s store,” though Mr. Martin did not own it and had
only been engaged to start it going. But the children always thought of
the camp store as they did of the one in Cresco, as belonging to their
father.

“Yes, we’ll make a cheese trap,” agreed Ted.

Mr. Martin was not in the store when they trudged back, but one of the
clerks gave them what they wanted.

“Don’t eat too much cheese,” he warned them. “It isn’t good for
Curlytops.”

“Oh we’re not going to eat it,” said Janet.

“It’s for the lame, tame crow,” added Ted.

“What in the world are those kiddies up to now, I wonder,” said one
clerk to another. “Talking about a lame, tame crow, and taking him out
some cheese!”

“Don’t ask me,” chuckled his companion. “They do more things in a day
than I could think of in a week. And that small chap--the one they call
Trouble--say, he’s a _tyke_!”

“He certainly is. Well, I only hope they won’t get sick eating the
cheese, and have Mr. Martin blame me for giving it to them.”

However, Ted and Janet had no idea of eating the cheese, though they
liked a little nibble now and then. But this cheese was for the lame,
tame crow they were sure they had seen in the woods. They were quite
certain it was Mr. Jenk’s black pet and they hoped to get the ten
dollars reward.

But the woods at Mount Major and around their camp were wide and long,
and though the children did not know it, hunting for a certain crow in
them was like looking for a needle in the haystack.

On and on through the woods tramped the Curlytops. It was a pleasant
day and it was early, for they had set off on their picnic soon after
dinner. They had with them some lunch for themselves and the cheese for
the crow--if they should happen to find Jim.

Every now and then they would stop and listen, and often they heard the
distant cawing of crows. But this was what happened every day in the
woods. There were many crows.

“And they all sound alike when they caw,” said Ted.

“Yes, but Jim crow can pop corks, and no other crow can do that,” said
Janet. “And he can stand on one leg in such a funny way.”

“Yes,” admitted her brother, “if we hear a cork popping we’ll know it’s
Jim.”

But they heard nothing like this as they wandered on through the
woods. Sometimes they even caught glimpses of crows flying overhead,
but these black birds did not come down low enough to see the pieces
of cheese which the Curlytops held out to them, hoping that one of the
crows might be Mr. Jenk’s Jim.

“Oh, dear!” sighed Janet after a while. “I guess we’ll never find that
crow. It’s like mother’s diamond locket that I lost. I guess it’s gone
forever.”

“Maybe the locket is,” agreed Ted. “But we’ve seen the crow, so we know
he’s somewhere around here.”

“But where?” asked his sister.

And Ted could not answer.

Still they did not give up. They had come to the woods to spend the
afternoon. They could eat about three o’clock when they usually got
hungry, and they might as well hunt for Jim as do anything else or play
any of their pretend games.

“I’m tired,” said Janet, after a bit. “Let’s sit down and rest.”

“And eat,” added Teddy. He was nearly always ready to do the latter.

So the children sat down on a mossy log in the pleasant shade of the
forest and opened the little boxes of lunch they had obtained in the
store.

“Before we eat we’ll spread out some of the cheese,” said Janet. “Maybe
Jim will smell it and fly down.”

Teddy thought this would be all right, so they put some bits of cheese
on a flat stump not far from where they sat down to eat their own lunch.

As they ate they kept an anxious watch, and also listened closely for
any sound of cawing in the air overhead. But, for some reason or other,
the crows, perhaps Jim with them, had flown away for the time being.

“Well, I guess there’s no crow here,” said Janet after a while, as she
stood up and brushed the crumbs from her lap. “Let’s go on.”

“All right,” agreed Ted. “But we’ll leave some of the cheese here, and
when we come back we’ll look again for Jim.”

“Maybe if we tapped on a tree like the woodpecker did, Jim would hear
it and come to us,” suggested Janet.

“Maybe,” her brother said. “Let’s try it.”

With sticks the children tapped on trees, making a noise as nearly like
the sound of a woodpecker as they could manage. But this brought to
them no tame crow, and, indeed, no wild one, either.

“Well, let’s go on,” said Teddy.

Part of the cheese was left on the flat stump where they had spread it
as bait. The remainder they picked up and took with them farther into
the woods. They were having fun, even if they didn’t find the lame,
tame crow.

After a little while the Curlytops came to an open place in the forest.
Across it they saw water gleaming in the sun.

“Oh, there’s the lake!” cried Ted. “I didn’t know it came up this way.”

The lake was of odd shape, and parts of it, like the arms of an
octopus, stretched out into different parts of the woods.

“I’m going in wading!” cried Ted.

“So will I!” added Janet.

They took off their shoes and stockings and splashed about in the
clean, warm water of the lake near shore. Then Ted discovered a boat
hidden in the bushes on shore.

“Oh, let’s have a ride!” he called to Janet.

“There aren’t any oars,” she objected, as Ted pulled the boat out so he
could get in.

“That’s nothing,” he said. “We can take poles and push ourselves
around. Come on, I’ll be captain! We’ll have lots of fun!”

Janet was always ready for fun.

“We must take our shoes and stockings,” she said. “If we leave ’em here
somebody might steal ’em.”

“Yes, we’ll take ’em in the boat, and the lunch, too,” her brother
agreed.

They quickly put their things in the old scow, for that is all the boat
was, and then, having found some poles in the woods, the Curlytops
pushed out from shore.

Soon they were adrift, moving slowly along the beach, first Ted and
then Janet pushing with their poles to keep the boat moving. It was
warm and pleasant out on the lake, and the Curlytops thought they were
having fine fun.

“Let’s go out a little farther,” proposed Ted.

“I’m afraid,” confessed Janet.

“Oh, we can easily pole ourselves back,” said Ted.

So they went out a little farther. They were more than a hundred feet
from shore when Janet suddenly gave a cry.

“What’s the matter?” called Ted.

“I lost my push-pole!” his sister answered.

“I’ll get it for you,” Ted offered.

He pushed the boat toward his sister’s floating pole, but, in doing so,
lost hold of his own.

“Now mine’s gone!” he cried.

Then the wind suddenly blew, sending the boat farther away from the two
poles. They now had no means of moving the boat unless they paddled
with their hands. Ted tried this, but could not make the craft come any
nearer the drifting poles.

“Oh, how far out we are from shore!” cried Janet. “Let’s go back, Ted.”

Ted tried, but it was of no use. The wind was blowing them farther and
farther out into the lake.




CHAPTER XX

THE CROW’S NEST


The Curlytops were frightened at first when they found that they were
adrift in the old boat with neither oars nor poles with which to guide
themselves back to shore. But after the first fright Ted laughed and
said:

“We’ll go on a voyage; we have something to eat.”

“How far’ll we go?” asked Janet, still a bit alarmed.

“Oh, across to the other shore,” and Ted pointed to the other side of
the lake. It was about half a mile away, though once on that shore the
children might not have been able to find a path back. For the shore of
the lake went winding in and out like the edges of a blot of ink when
you splatter a drop on a sheet of paper.

“I wish we could get the poles,” murmured Janet. “Then we could push
ourselves back.”

“I’ll try again,” offered Teddy, and he began paddling hard with his
hands over the side of the boat, endeavoring to send the craft back to
where the two poles could be seen floating.

But as Teddy paddled with his hands only on one side of the boat, it
was just the same as if he had rowed with one oar. The scow began to go
around in a circle.

“It’s like a merry-go-round!” chuckled Ted.

“But you mustn’t do it!” complained Janet. “It makes me dizzy to go
around like that!”

“Well, you paddle on your side then,” suggested Ted. “That’s what we
have to do--paddle on both sides.”

This was true; just as when you want a boat to go straight you must row
with two oars, one on each side, and you must pull evenly on each oar.

Putting her shoes and stockings with Ted’s, up in the bow of the boat,
Janet began paddling with her hands on one side, while her brother
paddled on the other side. In this way they managed to send the boat
back a little way, even though the wind was blowing in the opposite
direction.

“We’re getting nearer to the poles,” cried Teddy. “I think I can reach
one now. Stop paddling, Janet!”

She stopped and Teddy leaned over the side of the boat. He stretched
his hands out as far as he could reach, but as soon as the paddling
stopped the boat began to drift back again, blown by the wind. Wider
and wider became the space between Ted’s outstretched hands and the
floating poles.

“Look out!” cried Janet. “You’ll fall over!”

And Ted came very nearly doing this. Just in time he leaned back and
sat down in the bottom of the boat.

“You can’t get those poles!” sighed Janet.

“Yes, I can!” declared Teddy. He was not a boy to give up easily. He
started paddling with his hands again, as did Janet. Once more they
were almost within reach of the poles, but the wind blew them back.

“I--I guess I can’t do it,” Teddy had to admit, rather out of breath.

“Let’s drift over to the other shore, and then we can get out of the
boat and walk home,” suggested Janet.

This seemed the best plan to follow. So the Curlytops sat in the boat
and tried to pretend that they were enjoying the voyage and having a
good time. But, to tell you the truth, they were rather worried and
frightened.

The wind was now blowing stronger, but the children saw that this
would, all the more quickly, send them to the opposite shore.

“Let’s eat!” suggested Ted, after a bit. “We’ll make believe we’re
shipwrecked sailors and we’ll eat.”

“But don’t eat the cheese,” objected Janet. “We might find Jim the crow
on the other shore, and we could catch him with some cheese.”

“All right,” agreed Teddy. He was not very fond of cheese anyhow, and
he was willing that Jim should have it--if they could find Jim.

They were more than half way across the little bay, or arm of the lake,
and they could see that the other shore was a sandy one on which to
land when, from the woods they had left, came a shout.

“Where you children going with that boat?” hailed a man.

Looking back Janet and Ted saw a stranger standing on the shore near
the place where they had dragged out the craft which had been hidden
under the bushes. The man had a pair of oars in his hand, and it was
evident that he had come to use his boat. He had probably taken the
oars back home with him, knowing that the boat could not be taken far
without them.

“Where you going with my boat?” he asked, rather angrily.

“We didn’t mean to take it away,” Ted called back. The talk could
plainly be heard, as voices carry well over water, you know.

“Well, what did you take it away for?” asked the man, who was a
stranger to the Curlytops. “That’s my boat. I want to go fishing in it
and now you have it.”

“We’d bring it back if we could,” Teddy called back. “We’re sorry. We
only went out a little way but we lost our poles and we can’t get back.”

The man stood there and seemed to be thinking for a moment. Then he
laughed and said:

“Well, sit quiet and don’t fall out. You’ll be at the other shore
soon. Land there and make the boat fast. I’ll walk around and row you
back. Don’t be afraid.”

The Curlytops felt better after this. They watched the man turn back
with his oars over his shoulder. He was soon lost to sight in the
bushes. Then Ted and Janet looked toward the other shore which was
coming nearer and nearer. Of course they were really coming nearer to
the shore, for the land did not move. But in the boat it looked as
though it did.

The wind blew in puffs, and when one stronger than those before it
struck the boat it blew it well up on the sandy beach. Ted jumped out
and pulled the boat farther up on shore, while Janet remained in it.

“Now you can get out,” Ted told her. “We’ll stay here until the man
walks around and rows us back.”

“He was a good man, wasn’t he?” asked Janet, as she handed Ted his
shoes and stockings.

“Yes,” he agreed. “He wasn’t very cross ’cause we took his boat. I
didn’t know it was anybody’s--hid like that in the bushes.”

“I didn’t, either,” agreed Janet, as she and her brother put on their
shoes.

There was nothing to do until the man came, for the Curlytops were on
a strange shore and did not want to wander away and get lost. So they
sat down on stones, near where Ted had tied the boat to keep it from
drifting away, and they ate what little lunch remained.

“What’ll I do with this cheese?” asked Ted. “I don’t s’pose we’re going
to find any crows.”

“No,” admitted Janet slowly. “But maybe----”

Then she stopped suddenly, for in the air overhead sounded a loud:

“Caw! Caw! Caw!”

“Oh, look!” whispered Janet.

Fluttering down from the sky was a big, black bird. It flew to a low
stump of a tree, not far from where the children sat, and there the
crow perched, still cawing.

In wonder and hope the children watched the crow. The bird turned its
head from side to side, and seemed to be looking about for any danger.
He appeared to see the Curlytops, but did not mind them.

Then the crow began moving about on the edge of the stump, stirring up
something down in the hollow of it.

“Oh, Ted!” cried Janet. “I believe that crow has a nest in the stump!”

“It does look so,” admitted her brother.

As the two children saw the crow stepping about Janet observed
something else. Eagerly she clutched Ted’s arm and whispered:

“Ted, that crow is lame, just like Mr. Jenk’s!”

“And he’s tame, too,” said Teddy. “He isn’t a bit afraid of us. I’m
going to offer him some cheese!” He held out a bit in his hand to the
black bird. “Here, Jim! Jim!” coaxed Teddy. “Here’s cheese for you!”

“Caw! Caw!” croaked the glossy bird, head on one side. It fluttered its
wings and seemed about to fly toward Teddy to get the cheese.

“Oh, Ted! I’m going to tap like a woodpecker!” said Janet. “And you
snap your fingers. If that’s Jim, the lame, tame crow, he’ll stand on
one leg and he’ll pull a cork!”

“We’ll try it!” exclaimed Teddy.

Janet tapped on a tree near her, using a stick to make the sound. Teddy
snapped his fingers as well as he was able. Instantly the crow stopped
cawing. It turned its head on one side and then, a moment later, stood
on one leg, thrusting the other--the lame one--out from him like a
stiff stick.

“Look, Teddy! Look!” whispered Janet.

“Snap! Snap!” went Teddy’s chubby fingers.

“Pop! Pop!” exploded the crow, like a cork coming from a bottle.

“Oh, it’s Jim! It’s Mr. Jenk’s lame, tame crow, Jim! We’ve found him!”
shouted Janet in delight. “We’ve found him!”

Then, with another hoarse caw, the crow flew over and began picking at
the cheese in Teddy’s hand.

There was no doubt of it, they had found the lame crow. Jim was so
tame, and he knew the Curlytops so well, that he allowed his black
feathers to be stroked as he picked at the cheese. He seemed to be
enjoying himself very much.

“Now we’ve got him how are we going to keep him?” asked Ted. “He may
fly away again.”

“You could tie a string to his leg,” suggested Janet.

“I will!” decided her brother. He had plenty of string in his pocket.
Putting the cheese down on a log, where Jim could pick at it, Ted soon
tied a strong cord around the crow’s sound leg. The other end of the
cord Ted fastened to his waist to have both his hands free.

While he was doing this Janet walked over to the low stump where the
crow had what might be called his nest, though wild crows always build
in the highest trees they can find. Janet looked down in the hollow
stump. She saw bits of mussel shells, some bright pebbles, a lot of
hair from the tails of horses and a shiny piece of tin. Then she saw
something else that caused her to cry out in wonder.

“What is it?” asked Teddy, who had tied Jim fast to him.

“Oh, look what I’ve found!” gasped Janet. She held up something
glittering and shiny that dangled to and fro. “It’s mother’s diamond
locket and chain that we were playing house with!” cried Janet. “I’ve
found mother’s lost locket in Jim crow’s nest! Oh, how glad I am!”

“So am I!” said Teddy, rejoicing with his sister. “But how did it get
here?”

“Jim must have flown over to our house and picked it up off the box
when we ran out to see the auto accident,” answered Janet.

And that is exactly how it had happened. Of course Jim could not talk
and tell about it, for he could only pull corks and whistle. But from
what is known of crows--how fond they are of bright things--it could
easily be guessed what had happened.

Jim, flying away from Mr. Jenk’s house, had seen the glittering locket
where Janet had left it for a moment as she and her brothers hurried
out to the street. The crow had picked it up and had flown off to the
woods with it, as they often do with bright and shining things that
take their fancy.

Being a tame crow, Jim had made his nest in a low stump instead of a
high tree, and there he had dropped the diamond locket, having really
no further use for it. And there it had been all this while. Jim must
have liked his new freedom, for he did not fly back to Mr. Jenk’s
house, though very likely the lame crow the children once saw was this
same Jim.

“Oh, everything is coming out all right!” happily cried Janet, as she
looked at the diamond ornament. “I’ve found mother’s locket that I
thought I’d lost, and we have Mr. Jenk’s crow.”

“We’ll get ten dollars, too,” laughed Ted.

The man who owned the boat came. He was surprised when he heard the
children’s story, and said he often had known crows to fly away with
bright things.

“Well, I’ll have three passengers to row back, instead of two,” he
said, with a laugh. “Where do you live?” he asked the Curlytops.

“At Mount Major, near the sawmill,” they told him.

“I know where it is,” he said. “I’ll soon have you there.”

A little later when he rowed up to the bungalow dock he found Mr. and
Mrs. Martin just beginning to get worried about Ted and Janet.

You can imagine how surprised everyone was when the Curlytops came
back, not only with the missing crow but also the diamond locket.

“I never saw such lucky children!” chuckled Tod Everett.

“Caw! Caw!” croaked the crow, as if of the same opinion. Jim did not
try to get away. He seemed to have had enough of freedom. But no
chances were taken and he was kept fastened by a string until he could
be sent back to Mr. Jenk.

True to his promise, the owner of the lame, tame crow paid the ten
dollar reward to Teddy and Janet. Part of the money was given them to
spend, and the remainder was put in the bank for them.

“We’ve certainly had a fine summer in the woods,” said Mr. Martin, when
the time came to go back, for he had the camp store in good running
order now.

“It was the best time we ever had!” agreed Teddy.

“And it was exciting, too,” added Janet.

“I’m glad I have my little diamond locket back,” said Mrs. Martin.

“An’ I glad I got a new fire engine, an’ it squirts weal water!”
laughed Trouble, for Ted and Janet had taken part of their reward money
and bought him a new toy.

So all ended happily. But this is not the end of the adventures of the
Curlytops, for there are more to follow. But, for a while, we will bid
them good-bye.


THE END




THE CURLYTOPS SERIES

BY HOWARD R. GARIS

Author of the famous “Bedtime Animal Stories”

  _12mo._     _Cloth._     _Illustrated._    _Jacket in full colors_

_Price per volume, 65 cents, postpaid_

_Stories for children by the best author of books for little people._

[Illustration]


1. THE CURLYTOPS AT CHERRY FARM _or Vacation Days in the Country_

A tale of happy vacation days on a farm.


2. THE CURLYTOPS ON STAR ISLAND _or Camping out with Grandpa_

The Curlytops were delighted when grandpa took them to camp on Star
Island.


3. THE CURLYTOPS SNOWED IN _or Grand Fun with Skates and Sleds_

Winter was a jolly time for the Curlytops, with their skates and sleds,
on the lakes and hills.


4. THE CURLYTOPS AT UNCLE FRANK’S RANCH _or Little Folks on Pony Back_

Out West on their uncle’s ranch they have a wonderful time among the
cowboys and on pony back.


5. THE CURLYTOPS AT SILVER LAKE _or On the Water with Uncle Ben_

The Curlytops camp out on the shores of a beautiful lake.


6. THE CURLYTOPS AND THEIR PETS _or Uncle Toby’s Strange Collection_

When an old uncle leaves them to care for his collection of pets, they
get up a circus for charity.


7. THE CURLYTOPS AND THEIR PLAYMATES _or Jolly Times Through the
Holidays_

The children have great times with their uncle’s collection of animals.


8. THE CURLYTOPS IN THE WOODS _or Fun at the Lumber Camp_

Exciting times in the forest for Curlytops.




THE RUBY AND RUTHY SERIES

BY MINNIE E. PAULL

  _12mo._    _Cloth._    _Illustrated._
   _Price per volume, 65 cents, postpaid._

[Illustration]

_Four bright and entertaining stories told in Mrs. Paull’s happiest
manner are among the best stories ever written for young girls, and
cannot fail to interest any between the ages of eight and fifteen
years._


RUBY AND RUTHY

Ruby and Ruthie were not old enough to go to school, but they certainly
were lively enough to have many exciting adventures, that taught many
useful lessons needed to be learned by little girls.


RUBY’S UPS AND DOWNS

There were troubles enough for a dozen grown-ups, but Ruby got ahead of
them all, and, in spite of them, became a favorite in the lively times
at school.


RUBY AT SCHOOL

Ruby had many surprises when she went to the impossible place she heard
called a boarding school, but every experience helped to make her a
stronger-minded girl.


RUBY’S VACATION

This volume shows how a little girl improves by having varieties of
experience both happy and unhappy, provided she thinks, and is able to
use her good sense. Ruby lives and learns.




BROTHER AND SISTER SERIES

BY JOSEPHINE LAWRENCE

  _12mo._      _Cloth._      _Illustrated._
      _Jacket in full colors_

_Price per volume, 50 cents, postpaid_

[Illustration]

_Brother and Sister are the youngest of a large family of children
and because they are so eager to do as the others do, Roddy and Betty
sometimes tumble into a peck of mischief._

_These books will appeal especially to boys and girls from four to
eight years old._


1. BROTHER AND SISTER

Brother and Sister are busy and happy all of the time and make friends
easily. They learn that some children have less of the good things than
they and set out to help them.


2. BROTHER AND SISTER’S SCHOOLDAYS

Brother and Sister attend the Ridgeway public school where their
little, poor friend Mickey Gaffney is also a pupil. Brother and Mickey
try to find a missing gem which their teacher loses from her ring which
gets them into trouble with the janitor.


3. BROTHER AND SISTER’S HOLIDAYS

Thanksgiving Day at their grandmother’s house was lots of fun for
Brother and Sister; also their Christmas time, when they helped the
“poor people” for miles around.


4. BROTHER AND SISTER’S VACATION

Many strange things happen to Brother and Sister while spending their
vacation off in the woods. A most interesting story for children.




THE BILLY BUNNY BOOKS

BY DAVID CORY

  _12mo._      _Cloth._       _Illustrated in colors_

_Price per volume, 50 cents, postpaid_

[Illustration]

_Fascinating stories about a little rabbit whose exciting adventures in
the Friendly Forest and the Pleasant Meadow will delight every child._


1. BILLY BUNNY AND THE FRIENDLY ELEPHANT

Billy Bunny’s uncle, Mr. Lucky Lefthindfoot, is the owner of a circus.
The big elephant becomes the friend of the little rabbit and they have
many strange adventures together.


2. BILLY BUNNY AND DADDY FOX

This old robber is on the watch to catch the little rabbit, who has to
use his wits to escape from the crafty old fox.


3. BILLY BUNNY AND UNCLE BULL FROG

Uncle Bull Frog sits all day on his log in the Old Mill Pond catching
flies, and telling Billy Bunny interesting stories.


4. BILLY BUNNY AND UNCLE LUCKY LEFTHINDFOOT

“Uncle Lucky,” as he is called, because he is very rich, owns a
Luckymobile, in which he takes Billy Bunny out for a drive almost every
day.


5. BILLY BUNNY AND ROBBIE REDBREAST

Billy Bunny gets into trouble with nearly all of his woodland neighbors
but they make up and become friends again. Robbie Redbreast has his
troubles but they are only little ones.


6. BILLY BUNNY AND TIMMIE CHIPMUNK

Billy Bunny has many adventures with his friends of the field and
forest. Timmie Chipmunk was often unlucky but he was smart enough to
escape most of his dangers.




THE GIRL SCOUT SERIES

BY LILIAN GARIS

  _12mo._     _Cloth._     _Illustrated._
     _Jacket in full colors_

_Price per volume, 65 cents, postpaid_

[Illustration]

_The highest ideals of girlhood as advocated by the foremost
organizations of America form the background for these stories and
while unobtrusive there is a message in every volume._


1. THE GIRL SCOUT PIONEERS _or Winning the First B. C._

A story of the True Tred Troop in a Pennsylvania town. Two runaway
girls, who want to see the city, are reclaimed through troop influence.
The story is correct in scout detail.


2. THE GIRL SCOUTS AT BELLAIRE _or Maid Mary’s Awakening_

The story of a timid little maid who is afraid to take part in other
girls’ activities, while working nobly alone for high ideals. How she
was discovered by the Bellaire Troop and came into her own as “Maid
Mary” makes a fascinating story.


3. THE GIRL SCOUTS AT SEA CREST _or The Wig Wag Rescue_

Luna Land, a little island by the sea, is wrapt in a mysterious
seclusion, and Kitty Scuttle, a grotesque figure, succeeds in keeping
all others at bay until the Girl Scouts come.


4. THE GIRL SCOUTS AT CAMP COMALONG _or Peg of Tamarack Hills_

The girls of Bobolink Troop spend their summer on the shores of Lake
Hocomo. Their discovery of Peg, the mysterious rider, and the clearing
up of her remarkable adventures afford a vigorous plot.


5. THE GIRL SCOUTS AT ROCKY LEDGE _or Nora’s Real Vacation_

Nora Blair is the pampered daughter of a frivolous mother. Her
dislike for the rugged life of Girl Scouts is eventually changed to
appreciation, when the rescue of little Lucia, a woodland waif, becomes
a problem for the girls to solve.




THE LINGER-NOT SERIES

BY AGNES MILLER

  _12mo._    _Cloth._    _Illustrated._    _Jacket in full colors_

_Price per volume, 65 cents, postpaid_

[Illustration]

_This new series of girls’ books is in a new style of story writing.
The interest is in knowing the girls and seeing them solve the problems
that develop their character. Incidentally, a great deal of historical
information is imparted, and a fine atmosphere of responsibility is
made pleasing and useful to the reader._


1. THE LINGER-NOTS AND THE MYSTERY HOUSE _or The Story of Nine
Adventurous Girls_

How the Linger-Not girls met and formed their club seems commonplace,
but this writer makes it fascinating, and how they made their club
serve a great purpose continues the interest to the end, and introduces
a new type of girlhood.


2. THE LINGER-NOTS AND THE VALLEY FEUD _or The Great West Point Chain_

The Linger-Not girls had no thought of becoming mixed up with feuds or
mysteries, but their habit of being useful soon entangled them in some
surprising adventures that turned out happily for all, and made the
valley better because of their visit.


3. THE LINGER-NOTS AND THEIR GOLDEN QUEST _or The Log of the Ocean
Monarch_

For a club of girls to become involved in a mystery leading back into
the times of the California gold-rush, seems unnatural until the reader
sees how it happened, and how the girls helped one of their friends to
come into her rightful name and inheritance, forms a fine story.


_Send For Our Free Illustrated Catalogue_

  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY, Publishers      New York




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CURLYTOPS IN THE
WOODS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
